O Russia!Ah, who would not her silent feelings At this quick moment have read!But none she had!My muse in ethics well embodied!Ah, many were by fate denied!He’s always frowned, taciturn, He’s chilly, jealous, angry turned!But withered!But how greatly Tanya’s altered!Oh, you, the husbands so honoured!Indeed, for long should have the end!They’ve made me marry other man; And I’ll be true to him till end!With might and main he’ll you defend With love of kinsman, not of friend!Last evening frightful words I’d heard; Thank God!With education, as you know, We all can shine, and bless it God!In cold heart is kindling blood... Again the grief, of love the flood!Has found end untimely hard!My dear early little bird!The enmity’s afraid in world Of eyes derisive, scornful word!What foolish, dumpy is this place!What joy: to-day we’ll have to dance!She’s mere infant, But yet coquette! A giddy instance!They rush into the yard at once!They whisper her, You, Doonya, see!The gardens, chambers before me I could at once all gathered see!The drive to Moscow! It means the world to see!Diana’s breasts, the cheeks of Flora Delightful are, my freinds, you see!My cousin dear, Sit down... complex is the life!And dreams, that she with him as wife Will pass the peaceful mute of life!Ah, no one, my friends, believe me!O’key, but let us part not frigid. Ah, youth my light! Ah, dear me!Goodness me!Its nicer, friends, much more when he Is wailing foolishly: its me!Enough, my friend, its all the same!Quite sad for me is your occurence, The spring, the spring! of love the time!What languid agitation current There is in blood and soul mine!Alas, it’s easy to divine!More sweet, than joys beneath the moon, Will stay of Torkwat’s octaves tune!But what severe!For me the glory bring, of course: Wry talks, the noise, a lot of curse!With scornful bitter contemplation Your proud look will me refuse!For Russian heart too much is fused And echoed in it through muse!And could of high oppressive order All manners quickly imitate!Be glad with such a man… You smart With rare wit your letter wrote!While looking after girls, and yet At them keep strictly your lornette!She courted… at once decided: To Moscow by winter route!My dear God, you bless and save!Forgive!Arid thus we now part, forgive!My travelling mate, I beg your pardon; My true ideal, you forgive!Her real doubt Zadeka never could resolve!On earth, then might be by her love She’d joined the friends the day above!He looks, he calls him - all’s for nothing!The Christmas tide for joy is coming!His nets for them were so frightening!His scandal talks were such backbiting!And her attires, such belating, And her belating tune of speech!Could me enjoy... I’ve had my fill; It is enough!To what a storm of sudden sensing At heart he now has to duck!Well have the music regimental!He came, What news, such sentimental!Of all the charming for the bail And would be happy... till I fail!By night’s benevolent light breathing We mutely reveled and could fail!Of puffing to my face the spring In bosom of the country’s still!Opinion of the public mournful!To you I’m greatful!Reminiscence of old time, Of maiden’s room!Forgive, secluded my asylum!Whose grateful, feeling, truthful hand Will pat the fame of old man!- Not, then!Ah, many friends were near then!Or Baratinsky with his pen,- Let be you birnt by thunder then!And then was speaking of the same: Of Olga, dear love, again!Go on!What Grandison? Ah, Grandison!Andryushka, quicker must you go!I stop!But other times in mind I bear!Tatyana, ah, Tatyana dear!-Just solemn odes you could hear!Goodness me, it isn’t For him to hear!Tanya, near!-What said the satirist, remember!You first of alt must love yourself, My dear venerable reader!But crosses bridge; her helping her: She runs… the bear’s after her!It’s time, its time to marry her!And you forgive, my freedom later!If not... if not, let God deliver!Let’s go, do thorn such a favour!I was taking you in hands!Ruslan’s, Lyudmila’s friends!Of higher world the queer ladies!The foes!My greetings!To honest people he belongs: This way the century reforms!And he inspired her at dawns!Brothers!Ooh! What encirclement she has Of christening coldness, princess!But you forgive him, games in stillness!By sorcery of story’s secrets!Inspired, I again shall feel you, Your magic voice for me awaits!With what a lively fascination Deludes herself with all deceits!And let them God long live for us!O , rus!Of own life he could forget!And who that poor Tanya previous In this princess could not have met!But blissful husband of coquette, To part from him you did regret!The poet, the thoughtful dreamer Was killed by hand of friend for nought!Quite greatly, when he made a visit, On her was fawning, you should see it!Meanwhile in life you try to revel, As much as I you take form it!And now jealouser’s triumphant!To try to keep the indignation Her bps, such stubborn, now want!Ah, if he knew, by what a cruel Offence. Tatyana’s heart was burnt!Adores my Olga: figure, breast!The spring of honour, idol last!At bottom of my soul fast... But give them madrigal at last!On roan horses, three abrest; Arid let’s have dinner before rest!But hist!You, Moscow, I thought of you!To what malicious merry-making, It may be, give a cause for you!And how could he be annoying The hearts of ladies, whom he knew!And. so cunny, she is gay. Already’s able to betray!What do you want to ask, you say!But stealthily the door unlocking Grey-haired nurse already’s walking, With tea on tray is coming up: -My child, it’s time for getting up; But, beauty, you are now ready!I see you strong already!We sing of their lucky fate And glory!But forward, forward, you, my story!Her love but fright nevertheless, Main person of this novel pretty!My hearty friend, my friend beloved, You come, I’m husband yours by love!"He opened a door."Her grief she never hides And lone in the woods she hikes."Onegin was in eyes of people, (Which were in judgements strict, not feeble,)For pranks or weakness of the dear... (That’s all he knew in own world...)Petrarka 			Where days are cloudy and short 			A tribe was there born 			For which to die makes no hurt. (It.)To me I met sometimes in them! E sempre bene, gentlemen! (37)To see it here even poor I cannot; does it bother us?)I don’t grasp despite endeavours; You listen to (if I am right?)He gave his hard; in all her grievance (As they would say, it was unwitnessed)Two poles glued by halves of floe (Disastrous, trembling little aid)Unlucky Larina was going (To waste the money was afraid)At the beginning of my novel — (In chapter first you look it all)His wish to sacrifice his fate; But for the end (to make impression)And early ringing of the bells (Precursor of the morning works)At window alone, sad (Diana’s ray lights up, her wakens)Tatyana (Russian in her soul, Herself she doesn’t know why)She’s trembling in the heat of fever,	 For him she waits and doesn’t hear That in the garden maidens sing, While they are gathering, not seen, In bushes berries: they were given To sing strict order (while they job To make them banns not to rob As berries never could be eaten: In country they invented then The way the banns to defend!),When suddenly from village rear He could some droshky’s sounds hear),And near it (when it is raining In spring on corns of near fields),Or even own demon mine. Onegin (him I’ll occupy),But suddenly her eyelids close, She hasitates to make a step..,To Moscow, they need good things.’..,Him call to sit to samovar, And Doonya quickly gives him tea,In Africa; at any step To sigh about mirky Russia,Less influence on lady’s head; It was, my friends, Martyn Zadeka,And I, while thinking of Swetlana,The feather beds, the cocks in cages, The basins, pots, et cetera,By hard from big Tambóv’s engaged; Buyhánov whirls with Pustyakóva,He was mistaken: sleeping fair — Onegin then for world was dead,But wretched is, who’s all foreseeing, Who never felt some ache of head,To read Apuleius I was ardent, But Cicero I didn’t read,He would have known life quite real, At fourty gout would have had,It’s nice by epigram audacious To make erroneous foe mad,Her belt of silk she is removing, Undressed is going to bed,Some herds were walking in the scene, By garden canopies were ended,Return him life by jealous flame Or otherwise the male offended,Half-aireal and resplended, To magic bow all attended,Of elegy’s bad garland quickly; To all the rhymers, friends indeed,In it immersed, he there quite The whole world again denied,In many trends he’d change his habit: Would part with muses, would be married,(Unhappily, too much all salted). But. with the help of resin bottled,All servant maidens in the yard To guess the fortune were accustomed,The frosty dust did not inhale, With early snow, as it happened,She’s wild and sad, is daily silent. Like forest calf, she’s often frightened,In his first youth he was untrained,But Eugene’s fate for him was fair: At first by Madame he was cared,Like great Chadayev, Eugene dear Of jealousy reproach feared,By habits of the life he’s pampered, By somebody he was well tempered,Her chest is high, her cheeks are covered By instant flame, they quickly flowered,By liars secretly prepared, By worldly mob in chorus favoured,Despite her soul, such embarrassed, Despite her passions being raised,My Eugene is in front of home. Hall porter shadfly he bypassed,At first his language me confused,Malvina’s works but separated For several roubles he abated,But anyway the friend of mine To be light-hearted had been fated,All given up in summer heat. To count days he simply hated,Or that’s because all my disgrace Would eyes attract to you, belated,Sometimes he dares like in game, By smile of Olga animated,At least he’d my advice have held: Refuse the modes antiquated,Among the songs in books decrepit Somewhere issued was that lilt; Triquet with poet’s keen wit For world from dust that rhyme extracted,That their friendship never ends; By unreflected rays effected,Who glory, money and the ranks In turn and quietly effected,The wiser I should get each day: My deeds and rhymes to have corrected,His house stood in place selected, From winds by mountains protected,The powder, by grey parts handed, On shelf is falling; an indented,Some wines to me are not ajusted, Remind a lady-lover rusted,By one mistrustful old man; Him stately cuckold admitted,You came to me when I was sleeping, Unseen you were to me beloved,Was she feeling; That he then really was moved,Feocrite, Gomer were reproved, Yet Adam Smith was well approved,His life’s monotonous and is mixed, The same for many days is fixed,Her role how firmly played,But suddenly could part from it, As I from my Onegin did,He speeds her up the forest road; Through trees is seen a dwelling old,Sad and cold,By post-chase he headlong went, Was yawning sweetly before hand,The tea’s been brought; the quiet maidens Are taking saucers into hand,In languish of the heart remorses He pressed his pistol in his hand,His father didn’t understand Arid put in pledge the whole land,The love; who cooled it with divorcement, By scandal enmity could strand,I know, you were sent by goodness, You’ll be my guard until the end,With Pelagéya Nikolávna The same’s monsieur, her Fine-Mouche, friend,But sequels of the sudden meeting To-day, my dear reader-friend,From Eugene differ I my image, To note this I always trend,I’ll simply say without fevers: If previous idol I could find,But, being wife, she willy-nilly Yet sighed for man of other kind,She’s writing, on the table leaning, And always Eugene’s kept in mind,She has been shuddered, but is mute, She eyes Onegin as some good,But when her thanks for termination To Eugene came, tier languid mood,Long since the girl began to languish, Could burn in bliss, in dismal mood,Forgive me, isn’t it too hard?’ -For me it’s not - ‘But dear bard,Of years young but whithered hard,The killer of his brother-bard; The bard is dead... and that is hard,For evening whist who’s coming briskly, Sits down, plays not very hard,On sledge the corpse, all icy, lone, He’s taking home dreadful hoard,That year pretty autumn weather Too long was staying on in yard,By vernal rays all driven now From hills the snows, turned to mud,With goat’s beard sits a hag; She sees sceleton stiff and proud,Around Tanya ladies crowd,To look at life like at the rite, And follow the decent crowd,If by my lot I were convicted A husband, father just to be,It all was simple: floors of oak, Divan, the table, large wardrobe,With tender soul, clear sense Him gave attractive handsome face,And though Eugene, as we know, For long from reading turned his face,At start of novel good ideal In thicket of a distant place,But well, she’s named Tatyana; gladless, Nor by her sister’s pretty grace,And all entrust in singing voice The secrets of the maiden’s choice,The guessing songs and round dance, On all Whitsundays caught a chance,Sometimes with own blood she wrote To lady’s album if by chance,He bowed. Unattending body, At stage he looked as if by chance,For words of love to be entreating, First move of heart to catch by chance,But breget bells are now clinking: New ballet will begin by chance,Tatyana’s pale and dismal charms, Her hair down let by chance,Then changed in strict and quick a mode The maiden’s names by names from France,He was enabled, slightly rushing, To speak of anything at once,But soon for husband, all at once,The thirst demands some more of drinking To cool hot cutlet’s fat at once,He looks al her with tender ardour; He’s yet beloved with previous force,But his such sufferable shade,All peasants-men there are enriching, They get the silver with a spade,A young two-horned the moon at sky, But at unusual left the side,Tatyana to the yard, such wide,Recalling former love, such free, Perceptible and carefree,But was my Eugene satisfying By being free in prime of life,Not having any higher passion To rhymes to dedicate his life,With war; with magazine’s white lie; With snow and with own wife,With Tanya Lensky; Kharlikóva, The bride of more than ripening age,And great belief in world’s perfection, Forgive him ardour of his age,A bloody roast-beef is given, And truffles, splendour of teenage,Who killed at duel friend his own, Had lived without aim, this sage,But I was born for peaceful living, In village stillness gladly breathe,He couldn’t be a bard for ever, He didn’t go mad or die,In brackets I would like to note: You haven’t more insulting lie,Tatyana with her eyes amazing A look at everything can take,I’m hiking round pretty lake, Some flocks of ducks by chance awoke,By this half-tormenting a ramble, By table with a faded candle,To have a breakfast three together Could make them quickly reconcile,The girl appeared! Laugh was wild!. They all stood gaping for a while,To grieve, to talk of new affairs, To laugh, to gossip for a while,On table leaning with slight press, Are sitting, lost in thought. a little,While he prefered to play a steed. His finger’s frozen a little,The bard of feasts, of languid sadness, you had chance to stay with me,Somewhere you could look at me, But harmful is the North for me,It happened. When thunder of mazurka came,But Tanya’s heart yet isn’t gladdened, To meet the winter never came,In own village to appear New landlord in a droshky came,The love’s foregone, the muse appeared, And clearer my mind became,Such men (I’m first of them to blame) From boredom dear friends became,Of art high muses fine impressions He, happy, never put to shame,By love intoxicated, Embarrassed by the tender shame,Between two aunts at column now, Not seen by anyone that tame,Some neighbours said of the impression That wedding had some pointed time,Can hiss; with bearings important, By couplets tortured all the time,From cold world of dissipation To fade away not having time,Nor longest years of the partings, Nor all to muses given time,You must remember that day time,For that at distance poor dwelling, For place, in which the first toy time,Among his properties alone, To pass away his lazy time,To village own took her soon; But she was often in a fume,That time, when in lyceum’s gardens I flourished quickly, quite serene,But now, heartily I though Do love my hero fine,Like idol, - you, Omir divine, - For three millenniums in line,At nameless river, small and fine. In village where Eugene mine,Already I of plan was thinking, Of name of person number one,Who was unmodest, who by bristle. An answer, other trifles done,With wreath, ashamed, his hand in hand, With drooping head, as if yet lone,Does not make cows go out, And when at noon they are forlone,By now from a distant village The idol of the ladies ripe,In vain I try to be aware,Like women, books were all left here,The kin from distant places rare Have tender welcome everywhere,I’d like anew to warn all you: You, mothers, should be more severe,Was teaching him with ready jest, With morals never was severe,Yet being child, in children’s throng To play and jump had none desire,But when Vladimir disappeared, Onegin, languished by the bore,His heart is pressed, fulfilled with bore,And in the solitude severe Her passion’s heating yet much more,She’s running - he is after her; She can’t be running any more,Are full of piety, of wit, Such cautious, that we can’t endure,It’s right, of course, but trends of fashion, But of the nature willful pressure,Devoted to childish leisure 1 hike at lake in desert nature,I live and write not for applause,Accept you all my thankful feelings Admirer of peaceful muse,He doesn’t gather them with horn. A maiden’s singing in her house,He sees some smelted snow; now, As if he sleeps in some doss-house,And with Onegin’s recollecting Some jokes, pranks of old date,The heart of somebody he’ll cherish, Arid, kept by touch of truthful fate,I very much this word am liking, But cannot I this word translate,Let us sing in gaiety Song of maidens intimate,Onegin was already ready With me some foreign lands to rate,Enchanting land! In days of wisdom, Of satire great potentate,The poet in heat of judgement Some nothern poem could cite,To such an album, being tight, If to confess, I’d like to write,His French was so perfect now, That he could chat, as well as write,Alas, Tatyana’s daily fading: She’s paling, sinking and is mute,And as a law for me imputing Of passions tyrany unique,From early times he was dissembling, Some hidden hope he could leave,But Lensky, having no wishes Of marriage ties the weight to have,But I, it may be, not adoring Will see the secrets of the grave,And much the more it’s nice in silence For him prepare honest grave,But l forsee some more of bounds: The honour of my land to save,And then I shall begin to rhyme New couplets, more than twenty five,The almanacs and all the journals In which to us they lectures give,To her was due first dream unquiet Of poet: at love the drive,-Ah, dear my! in my teenager We heard yet nothing of the love,Enticing goblet for my love, Its you, who made me drunk with love,If you could know, what’s diminished To languish in the thirst for love,The modern taste of his attire, To keep your curious gaze,Could give a fright by desperation, With flattery could draw one’s gaze,From archives coining several youngsters In throng at Tanya stiffly gaze,Is she the same Tatyana real? To whom he privately, in haze,He real bard resented there, When all alone, lost in haze,He knew the Latin anyhow: To talk about epigraf,Zarétsky, brawler; they believe: Of gambling gang he was the chief,And you, ‘Bordeaux’ you came friendly, Like friend in trouble and in grief,Sometimes to Olga he is reading With morals novel for herself,To Lensky speaking of himself, Revealing all his heart itself,Of course, for times you have been seeing A country maiden’s album big,All wine from goblet at his hand Was not till end life’s novel reading,At first of them she didn’t think, But their choice seemed queer thing, And she was lost in their reading,With ranks of books his shelf fulfilling, For long he eagerly was reading,Alone’s sitting, pale and thin, She is some letter now reading,In great confusion she is hastening, While falling star yet isn’t fading,Of sense precautions never heeding, To her glass porch too close speeding,To queer dreams did not abandon, From mob apart was never standing,In snow-drifts in front of maiden A stream is boiling, all is raging,What roses, you can be judging,Of that two words I must be speaking: Of young my friend I’m now singing,Just He! His gaze on her he’s fixing, Like dreadful shade for her he’s reaching,Then sudden caper - and she fleets Like down from Eolus marching,The languid wit forever smiles; The heart is still, its never dashing,At you in village have a weak But look. To listen to your speaking,With lyre, while abroad residing, In Goethe’s, Shiner’s places hiking,Arid though ladies can be talking Of Say and Bentham at the walking,Her breast as yet is greatly trembling,A trice ago was he living And his young heart was full of feeling,In it, in spite of rules of spelling Excessive verse, as they are telling,In front of you with signs of death Is stiffening slowly, is cooling,In fear I was crying, darling,With autumn skies were dayly breathing, Not every day the sun was gleaming,He shouts: ‘Stop your own crying And croaking the same, and whining,A brave sledge-cart from field’s returning, It’s fluffy furrows upturning,Like convict in the stocks from jail If brought to forests while he’s sleeping,For fair of the brides her bring,Adulteries were not adonng; His friends and freindship made him boring,Because of ache of own head. And, though staying rake adoring,Concerns of heart he was ignoring, He future hopes was adoring,For him the aim of life was smart Quite puzzling riddle, much alluring,And in a while of storm the track In soul mine will soon be ceasing,It is predicting to my gazing Reward, which I can’t be appraising,And calmly edge of earth is lighting, And, sign of day, the wind is rising,Yet might be less fulfilled for while By foreign words without pressing,Enjoyed by thunder of the music From tea with rum at once refusing,Deceased was buried after meeting, The priests and guests were drinking, eating,But Hymen’s troubles, griefs of mating,In sadness he it all was reading, At once he hurried for the meeting,To chase the love and all at once To get agreed a secret meeting,Khandra pursued him, always waiting,Already for triumph he’s waiting,Devotion to dreams unwitting, Unimitated strange unfitting,The noisy talks he was escaping; All their prudent talk, such raving,But its magestic merry fizz Caused foolishness and some misgiving,My soul secret forms was keeping, My muse made all them once more living,And now North, all clouds driving,By prudent talk without trite, E ternal morals, prigs surviving,She kept accounts; always then On Saturdays they bath were serving,A lady’s love until to-day To speak her Russian isn’t trying,His lyre, now mute, could dare Alarm a loud peal for long,The sweet prosperity and freedom; I read a little, sleep for long,And being free, again	revel In girl from Venece, pretty, young,Each minute more is captivated By Olga’s beauty so young,At least regret, sincere pity, At least by sounds of the speech,To him occurs A stubborn, rude idea though,But Latin’s not in fashion now. To tell the truth but frank enough,If mincing cat, on stove sitting, While purring could his muzzle wash,Among the people wise quite choicely To pass for feigned a queer. fish,Annoyance, jealousy could vanish In front of eyes with clear relish,He’s trembling, loses fitting words, He’s happy, has improved his health,The spring to country all you calls, The time of work, of fruits, of warmth,My friend Elvina! Nothing hinders To love it under table cloth,But if the age is late and fruitless At natural turn of life for rack,Of music roar, of candles gleaming, The flash, the whirl of couples quick,The pistols all are now shining, The hammer’s jingling at the lock,For intricate and slander talk, In checking all my traits for mock,My Eugene’s standing As if by thunder has been struck,If I had any hope rigid Not often, mere once a week,Her husband’s love to wife was hearty, Her deeds he took for mere crank,In one he saw of brandies order, In other found debit book,His morbid and quite dying look,The hamlet, where Eugene’s boring, Is nice and cosy a nook,As at the reason of the parting Tatyana’s grumbling at the brook,And own pawn with own rook Distracted Lensky there took,Where are of stormy love his itchings, The thirst for knowledge and for work,But all the youngsters, always flaming, Could never enmity conceal,With all my soul being sure That any rubbish, done with zeal,In which they all are cursing me; Some kinds of madrigals, not oral,At sea I wait for better season, The sails of ships I call, I feel,Entreaties and confessions making, To speak of anything I feel,But where of Melpomen heavy Resounds fine and drawling wail,Arise and ripen, then will fall, And others after them come all,His genius was unique, alone, He knew of something best of all,About news and fashions dear With dolls she didn’t talk at all,It serves him right: to think if strictly, If secret judge for him to call,It’s in the backwoods and it all Is bound by the snow-fall,I’m sorry that you go… well, My dear Lensky, will you tell,But Eugene was beyond conception: Of course, he knew the people well,A bee to fields, of tribute well,She went and went.., All of a sudden Sees manor-house from a hill,The memory of bard, yet youthful, Will sink into oblivion truthful,Lets attract. brave fellow To the chorus merriful,On old prejudices harmful, Eternal secret tombs alarmful,Which are half-funny and half-mournful,Which was for him from time of childhood Like work and torment, was delightful,Now spiteful, Like in vendetta they are frightful,Of common thinking, somewhat thoughtful,Its worth of fine and charming soul,And magic poison of its itches; You are pursued by happy dream,Since young Tatyana at some hovel With Eugene, in my hazy dream,Some boys In boat with its oars rowed Along the sleepy Neva’s stream,Through tears never seeing him,Ah, Olga gave the word to him,And thus my hero grin; At minute, difficult for him,He did believe, that soul dear Will join enevitably him,A hundred times is blessed, who’s faithful. Who’s got his wit to be quite calm,The same I was in time of wisdom,In stillness of the humble grove Of innocence some charming loom,And you have right to it, not duties, Among rebellious storms, I mean,And fugitive of world and people, For stylish beauties stylish man,With dear Tanya he was eager Himself to show honest man,The hawkers walk, gets up the salesman, Is dragging to cabstand a cabman,Behind accacias, bird cherries From storms is hidden in his den,Some meadows and fields extended; Somewhere villages were seen,She was the works in fields observing, She salted mushrooms, punished men,Is time: all good but lazy-bone Epicurean wise all men,You write the odes, gentlemen,Across the pits the sleigh is speeding, Is passing by the stalls, the women,Onegin is deep sleep just having; The sun is now high in heaven,In France of cooking highest gauge; And pie train Strassburg, freshly driven,-Let’s go.- They were quietly driven,His servant Guillot from France, is running in,Who has ideas and is living, He looks at people with disdain,At twenty dandy was with brain, At thirty married was with gain,Like prisoner from any chain Is ready to escape again,But when to country comes the evening The billiard, cues are left again,Because she’s innocent and plain,At brook the monument is seeing She’s drawing made of leather rein,But then, the love of tender beauties More trusty is than friendship, kin,The monument in words explains Submissive sinner, Dimitry Larin,(For him to hide was very easy By riding stallion from the Don,He’s now languished by remorse, He’s being ready to beg pardon,Are kissing, tenderly press hands, They flop her curls up to the fashion,He didn’t want by any way But by the rules of artful fashion,He looked for girls without passion And left them all with none compassion,As real expert does by chance. He could be silent in discussion,He left with real consolation Of woods and valleys isolation,All those changes. All the more He, full of jealous indignation,And you, my youthful inspiration, Disturb my weak imagination,Grandfathers to the tombs do press, It comes, the time of exitation,But in a while I had been used To caustic, hot argumentation,He thought: a fool would trouble his Such quickly fading high affection,All envied by the hard, yet living! In worldly storms - of life oblivion,Regret, resentment, being sorry, Some pure love to every boon,He sang of love, for love was loyal, His song was clear like the noon,Or kind of madcap; sad a version Of some Satanic ugly person,When we shall gather under banner Of stillness, rational and cairn,If that Fillidae you can show, The subject for the pen to mourn,And didn’t frighten anyone By natural vividness and fun,He joked in a funny manner, Could fool an idiot for fun,Are troubled house-spirit gangs; Onegin’s eyes make tire own,In open light dress comes out, At moon her mirror’s aiming down,Nomadic life to better know, Herself with them could wild she go,Princess Helena has for ages The same of tulle well made night cap,With him my cousin first Buyánov, All fuzzy, wears peaky cap,He’s happy now just to throw On shoulders her fluffy wrap,At window by books in heap, By bed with carpet, chairs, whip,For merry dispute he was able To be in answers dull or sharp,By instant cool is all filled up To him Onegin hurries up,In pocket he, as Frenchman real, Has brought for his Tatyana dear,He died at hour of dinner, Bermoned by his neighbours dear,I didn’t dare to believe: Cave no start to habits dear,They had a fasting twice a year, They liked of round swing high gear,He slept and coffee had he here, His menager’s reports could hear,All’s filled by Him, by image dear, And magic force, that she can hear,He writes of all that he can hear Or see of Olga in the near,When sees: a hunter from afar At him is looking so far,His illness never was distinguished From illness, known so far,Along the darkish sky is flying To scatter in the sky afar,Like Julie’s lovers, grand Wollmar, Malek-Adel and De Linar,Then bring to Doonya some guitar,To read... but thoughts yet make him wonder His heart is sad but doesn’t slumber,The same is dog, the same’s her man Which is of club the loyal number,His look was always quick and tender,And leaning mutely on the door Is writing elegies for her,The aunts are winking one to other And pushed my Tanya quickly rather,And after rather tedious dinner, When I, refreshing own inner,You listen but without anger: With time young girl will change her temper,Of Jouvenale to talk much better, To end with vale own letter,It caught him now and for ever; But yet to kill himself he never,And drop some tears twice or thrice; They needed kvass not less than air,But She whom I yet don’t dare To trouble with my lyre fair,Onegin’s now free from care. In fashion has he cut his hair,My disillusioned lornette, Of joy some careless spectator,And saying so, made he dry A glass to health of dear neighbour,And -now she with great attention Voluptuous novels quickly reads,But she’s neglectful to the singing, To ringing voices of the maids,She’s stuffy here... In her dreams Transfers for life among the fields,With grievous noise became all naked, The tog was falling on the fields,The former foe of the orders, The waster, Eugene of the lands,I had happened To know many old legends,But when the nurse in summer gathered To Olga all her little friends,All poets, meanwhile I’ll note, Of dreamy, pensive love are friends,Would come together at week-ends, Unceremonious dear friends,Submissive to the natural passion Invite to them, become her friends,Who father’s money never trusts To cunning friends, to crufty cards,Admires all the noisy tightness, The flash of dresses and of words,She waits impatiently for feeling That hearty tremble now fades,But that’s more wonderful and dreadful: A crayfish on a spider rides,He aimlessly began to wander, With passions only agrees,The panes with patterns are like marvel, By snow flocks are covered trees,From glass not stopping For a while’. He never kisses hands of ladies,Through tight a row of the grandeurs, Of diplomats, of army dandies,Maliciously discuss with smiles: If I was sharp or dull in lies,The spurs of horse-guards-man are jingling, Each foot of pretty ladies flies,When some respiended dear lady To give in quatro me yet tries,With fragrant, all grey-haired head An old man said old jokes,Meanwhile some two or three of pages (Some idle gibberish or fables,Confess; we have the taste quite mere In life, as well as in the names,To show his beloved main person As perfect one for all the times,Slipshod result of my pastimes,Was impudent and shy; sometimes Could show how tear shines,Be quick, my friends! the field invites. In carts with weights of food, attires,She doesn’t listen to the guests And curses their idle leisures,Do not reflect Diana’s features, Recalling bygone novel’s creatures,Zhizhi, my soul’s crystal first, The subject of naive my passes,(In times, by thorough foundation Of philosophical best rates,Oh, Brenta! I again shall see you. My dear Adriatic waves,Sometimes of him in midnight hazes, Untill yet Morpheus, she believes,Monotonous and sometimes yet senseless, Like whirlwind of the youthful lives,Or am I stranger to enjoyments, To all that gladdens and revives,By his anwaited apparition, By instant tenderness of eyes,By writing verse, the dismal mourner Of parents, with running eyes,Of course, Onegin’s not alone, Who saw her disarray in eyes,He sang of partings and of griefs, Of something, foggy misbeliefs,By happy force of own dreamings She brings to life all novel’s beings,All innocent the talkings flow; With lie they beautify some things,And there, in the shades of links, My younger days were rushing things,Ah, you, whose memory will fuse In verse my flying feeble dealings,(If I had right for some decisions) I would prefer to slighting feelings,The fright of shame, of evil word? Where are you, cherished happy dreamings,She falls on snow - he is swifty: He’s taking her in paws and brings,(At season, which is called meanwhile The time of wolf and dog for meetings,Then hoofs, wry trunks, it let alone The tufted tails, the fangs in mugs,And now Tanya is alone Alas! for long-time friend she sighs,The same, from whom he now keeps A letter, where heart her speaks,But by your narrow small tracks,This noise, the lustre and the crooks, For wild a garden, shelves of books,In sledge he’s sitting now. -Away, away! - the driver marks,With one of feet the floor she’s touching, With other slowly she wheels,In which yet streams the clear brook, To flowers, to all the novels,Each box in theatre is shining, In pit each stall already boils,The Pans of the district girls, With Olga Petushkóv then whirls,For her cotillion now seems Like long and heavy dreadful dreams,Of saint fulfilled generous dreams,In coolness of the gloomy grove With purl and babble of still streams,You all indifferent, lucky, prone Of Levshin school the pupils, fans,Yet child, by Olga fascinated, Ignorant yet of hearty pains,All us, well laugh at their impulse, At late ridiculous opinions,They all began to guess of reasons, Invented stealthily decisions,The first in life the stormy passions, And they give birth to new impressions,Of sleepless nights, of inspirations,Of mind some cold observations,His own tender verse he leaves Like monument to his affections,He hasn’t any fascinations, But has some snake of recollections,The dreams, not bound with this day, The threats, the talkings and predictions,Of rhymes the fever: he could double Of poetry sacred scraps,Of looking back she doesn’t dare And hurries up, she’s quickening steps,I never wished with such a torture To kiss young Armid’s pretty lips,May be, you rose from the clans In those places, or have dears,But jingle of the spurs he hears, Tatyana’s husband just appears,Love-letter secrets on six sheets, The fraud, the gossip, rings, the tears,Her way is crossing, then she feels Herself embarrased; and of tears,The chairs, saucepans and the trunks, The matresses and jams in jars,The time revengeful now nears, In secret Eugene gaily sneers,At any place there are some chambers, Of damask are in rooms wallpapers,At sea to hear for a while Of nereid unceasing whispers,In spring at grass and so forth, At iron fire-place in winters,The eyes are blue as depth of heavens, The smile, the flaxen curls of hairs,Of beauties light and fine attires, Of people variegated choirs,-I hate your world of fashion marbles, Much more I like the world indoors,Engaged alone with accounts; Or, taking cue like somewhat armours,That time in sacramental valleys, At cries of swans, of spring endeavours,With narrow and long wine-glasses, Reminding slander waist of yours,They are alone far from people, Are playing at the board of chess,Maidens dear, beautiful, We are mates in friendliness,He liked the grove’s timid thickness,She opened the feasts In it And praised devices of the chillness,Arrival slow of the guests In front of hostess young brightness,And now in my garden small She came at once as district mistress,Sometimes with pretty girl a meeting, A young and fresh unwaited kiss,Of world conventions breaking load Like he I lagged behind of fuss,But doesn’t lade the heat of cheeks, And brighter, strickingly it heats,She likes the order, well-composed, Of oligarchial the chats,At. fifty who was liberated From private and from other debts,In country tedium’s prevailing Without palaces or streets,To them, to their senseless feasts She brought her fine and dear gifts,Of proud ladies yet she slips, She now looks, but stilly sits,He brought from Germany his dear, As poet, of learning fruits,The boulevards, cossacks and the butts, Drug-stores and towers, the garments,I’m greatful for the good enjoyments, For sadness, for the pretty torments,Apostate of wild enjoyments,Whom don’t bore the falseful fears, The prayers, swears, threats and hints,And like the Beccant could she gamble, With bowl sang she for the guests,Of Buchars, sledges, kitchen-gardens, The merchants, peasants arid the huts,The less we love a pretty woman, The easier she’s liking us,Its sad to think, indeed, that vainly The youth was given to all us,The world with smile my muse was electing, The first success lent wings for us,The horse for rider proved obedience, The dinner rather well fastidious,This Russian family seems light, To all the guests it’s always zealous,Alone you, to speak my mind, I’d take as friend of days my grievous,In fruitless speeches drily fuse inquiries, some gossips, news,Meanwhile Onegin’s stay at Larin’s Was estimated like a news,That she is good, dull husband knows But at has fate he curses throws,By fate all counted my days, All painful are they nowadays,Who’s helpfully for us adjusting His own deeds and when he prays,They bring Tatyana to grand meeting The tightness, agitation, heat,Alas! all days and nights are now One long and lone dream in heat,Then he for her a chair’s finding, They speak about this and that,But may be those kinds of pictures By now can’t you all attract,Onegin now enters, For stalls comes over the feet,For long to wish, your knees embracing, And weeping at your dear feet,But I can hardly drag my feet,Severe anguish, called a spleen, Was seeking in the world unquiet,In summer Eugene lived like hermit: Past six was getting up in hamlet,I knew some difficult young ladies' Like winter cold, pure, light,Could never show shining passion, Nor sparks of poetic light,By sight through panes at moonlight diminish, By this quite pallid feeble light,All double lanterns in the sight Are stretching their joyful light,All over the Neva river, When waters, being gaily light,And my in life success at random, My stylish place, the guests till night,Of ballet’s noises being tired, Transforming morning into night,Which friend of yours with smile of terror In circles decent, so right,With utterly regretful soul, On granit leaning, straight. upright,As idols now to have got Or Vampire, who’s lost in thought,Adorer of the glory, freedom, Immersed in own stormy thought,Could change his soul little bit: Some virgin fire flamed in it,With passion and the wit to gain, For sudden tenderness to wait,Lornette his double slantwise renders To see all ladies to be fit,Besides, they all are so pure, Magestic, for the love unfit,My student’s cell; its sullen tightness At once by rays of hers was lit,On real price of ancient treaties, On evil, good, on science fruit,Then life almighty brings the good: A pompous bloom arid costly fruit,With Kharlikóv Panfíl and children Monsieur Triquet arrived, a wit,As if to prove that he was right. And Eugene, passionate, indulgent,Reposes in heart contentment Like drunkard, spending night for payment,At least three hours he daily In front of mirrors gladly spent,Not secret tortures of the evil Would I in prose represent,Nor pictures nor a wisdom thought That Virgin or Racine had got,We all to learn had little go And anyhow something got,But uncoordinated volumes From devil’s library all got,Lornette his captious he has got,And albums perfect but enormous, Of stylish rhymers racking lot,Manzony, Herder; was re-reading Madame de Stael, Bichat, Tissot,It’s nice to see when stubborn gracious He bends his horns to butt is apt,Thus you, Yazykov, always wrote In gust of passion of your heart,But to no person In all the world I’d give my heart,Your tears, if you will be crying, Would never touch my gloomy heart,To their talks pays none attention, In them she sees yet nothing smart,And is alive yet for the present, In philosophical sense desert,It was an honourable, pleasant A challenge, or cartel quite short,For tears her, by will suppressed - Her heart is torn in half at breast,And more five steps they neared striding, And Lensky screwed left eye more fast,Again of scandals, and at last To altar I shall lead them fast,His father served for many years, And fell in debt, such big and vast,Shall I portray in truthful picture Secluded study of the best,Coquette is judging always coolly; Tatyana loves without jest,For love she’s dedicated truly Like loyal child for mother’s nest,Which came from neighbouring a valley; The peasants come to take a rest,Himself consoled if not suited, Betrayed - was glad to have a rest,She sees a hall forgotten now, A cue on billiard has a rest,Monsieur l’Abbe, a Frenchman mere, To give the boy some chance to rest,The spring enlightened him, and now From dosed chambers he gets out,Again promiscuosly he’s reading… Has read all Gibbon and Rousseau,Meantime account, made for you, In details I shall give to you,In them I marvelled at the virtue And fashioned arrogance, that hurts you,(Of course you him alredy met;) And counsellor retired Flyánov,From two to thirty years on; The district dandy Petushkóv,Or vagrant Melmoth, such distressful, Or Corsair, or Eternal Jew,But when his thoughts were of destroying His own rivals, though few,Across the torrent have been laid. In front of noisy gulf of flow,A splendid house now shines, In windows some shades can flow,Of lively lucid verse’s glow,I would with joy allow To give this masquerade by now,This kind of book yet doesn’t show The writer’s fancies in a row,Two pistols in a row,She near parents could bloom, Like lilies in the valley grow,On balcony at morning sitting She liked to meet the break of day,I see: my age is short: to cure My life for every other day,To pensiveness she got accustomed From cradle to the present day,Among all those ardent days Of boiling youth, such bright and gay,On river’s batik; and far away In front of it, all looking gay,She’s dutiful and always modest, As fresh as morning, always gay,The further I’m from youth my gay,By rays of day will shine the morning And brightly will be playing clay,With youthful years gets away, And my Zaretsky, I would say,In late of evening, such amusing, Along the Petersburg high-way,Forgive me thickets In which my days have passed away,When clouds in the sky are drifting And stars in turn all get away,And he was sure: friends are ready To suffer all for him already,To whom in secret you did write Some verse, your sins to justify,More pretty than a parquette fashioned, The river, clad in ice, is flashy,And from his dressing room he went Like giddy Venus, when quite gaily,Let us play inventfully, Lot us play more happily,You all, whom decorated guickly Tolstoy with brush such wondrous, sweatily,Then gets he out of the yard, At home falls asleep too quickly,By name he was Vladimir Lensky. With Göttingen in soul frankly,You are like comrade, 1 believe, To help are ready always gently,And I, untroubled, glorified The girl from rocks, ideal my,- You tell me, nanny,The branch has no wreath; Beneath, alone, grey and puny,And under curtain fine, all silky, In her new bed she is unsleepy,She’s still and simple at a glimpse. She seemed to be a certain copy,And seems to be yet hardly live: But Tanya simply couldn’t cry,You don’t let be cooled my soul, Become embittered, hardened, dry,Ah, brethren! pleased I was then greatly When many curches, each with belfry,I checked it all, and very strictly; In many places contradictory,(With all that I began my thought). But when he reached it in a hurry,Creation of the hell or sky, This angel, haughty devil wry,Is pictured rather well correctly With his immoral soul wry,Or sleeping over the Lethe The poet is quiet, easy,With whom we all to sleep had gone; - For tender girl, the dreamer hearty,In her could never find a hook To use the word on fashion’s duty,Who’s there, crimson beret wears, With Spanish diplomat she speaks?’,I’ll take a look and then turn’,- Princess, mon ange! -You are in heat.- - But I’m not ill Well... nanny, I’m in love, I feel.., - God bless you now, dear daughter! -His wit of poet was milding; His constantly inspired faze, -Of pale and foggy, sleepy moon The lazy East is yet asleeping, -A sound sleep, the walks, the reading. The forest shade, of brooks the hiss, -About haying and of wine, Of kennels, of relation’s lint, -About other’s restless passions, And other’s love will touch the heart, -Which pressed his spirits all the way And kept his laziness for day, -Much more... -But why, Onegin, you are yawning? -And what? -The ‘else’s trends’, for you the best Among dull rhymers and the rest? -And by degrees but is beginning Tatyana him to comprehend -With fizz by bottle wine be pouring While saying clever pncky word -- D’you joke -The whiskers and the bloody tongues, The horns and fingers made of bone -But now, friends, from all my sides --But what is it -Of writings of the life in past, But ancient anecdotes deeply -And there… -(As well as in the old years In time of mine and time of yours),-The health, the prime of life, its sweetness, The smile, the innocent calm ease,-If by the family best vision For instant I’d be charmed with reason,-Of nightly grief I see none track, Your face is blushing poppy-red.-Or otherwise I’d be with rages By all my kin pursued for love.-They call, And no reason, even gappy, You have for not to come at all.-And thus... But what a fool I am I They call you: come next week to them.--My hearty friend, you have some fevers.-She’s taciturn like that Swetlana,.. When came, at window she sat.-Too many neighbours we have had, I cannot count al! them yet.-He stepped away... he turned a bit..’-. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Has brought. the sun and anyhow The merry festival name-day .But send your boy, and first of all’ .With her, my lips will find anew Petrarka’s language ‘I love you’ .But yet not sharing with throng Ideas, passions yours life long".Like drunkard tight by real Frenchmen Was captivated (dear lot!).I love you (why should I be cunning?).As legends say of old age (For that we’d praise in him the sage).Or could be poet with reasons (And I confess - could favour me).Or Cleopatra may encore (By others to be heard once more).Do comme il faut… (Shishkov, forgive; can’t some good translation give).Says yes or no, never да-с Or нет-с’(the words, they all would pass).(A highly torturing a feeling, A voluntary cross of few).Or village house - at the pane Is sitting she.., and she again!,.Well dressed, she’s waiting for her chance, But came to Olga her adorer.,.He’s killed!..To go on with calm a talk, To fix at you the joyful stare!..It’s winter!..And she is squeaking (dear me!): In gold chamber visit me!...D’you know?...At once was frightened my Tatyana...A book at mornings here read...The crowd now all is waving, A whisper through the hall has flied...But something more us separated...Decayed...And we adored, like in a dream, Some song of horn and man, such bold...What chatters!.. Blood in her runs cold...Does not remove from lips his gasping Her quite insensible small hand...My poor mind...Bewildered and astonished hard...Dear! come to rue… As in a dream it seems to be...Meanwhile her soul’s feelings moan, Her tears filled her languid glance...None soul’s seen in rooms at entrance...All neighbours came by closed sleigh, By hooded carts, by britzkas, sledge...Yes, It is he...The field is dark in pretty gale...In winter here they had dinner With Lensky, neighbour late, as rule...Next day has come...Ideal image, Tanya’s rhyme...To me that time you were quite right,’ To you is grateful soul mine...-But no one...While at the moon Tatyana’s looking, By own heart away she’s gone...Unlucky victim, Lensky’s gone...To keep the happy stirrup dare...He isn’t here...The breath is fading in her lips, She heard some noise, her eyes did glimpse...But they, to whom at friendly meeting My first of stanzas could I cite...On their foreheads words of Hades: Forever hopes you must leave...For him two hearts, I can believe, Yet are in grief...And then he dressed himself...But he’s forgotten, and to other His bride has given all herself...The fire-place is fading...Imagine: I’m alone, thus From no man have understanding...Is heard; the dwelling all is shaking...In horror Tanya is awaking...For me your honour is the bail, I trust you bravely all my feeling...Too long the silence’s now seeming...Let’s turn the route we now here To keep in mind of whom I sing...The snow-drift at once is moving...Of mind some vague a thought is moving...The evening darkness comes along...Of turnpike pillars white and florid Are seen... Tverskaya gets along...Her face but has of wrath a track...Like shade she aimlessly is hiking And comes into deserted park...In front of tenderness quite plain, In front of soul playful, frail...Healthy all...Princess is staring at him...What a whim...And I’m afraid: in spite of charm That water brings me much of harm...Is spoiled by old duels fan, He’s evil, gossip, talking man...I dread to read again...Before the fight to be invited... At watch, the sun he’s looking on...On table’s hissing yet, forlorn...I’m unknown...And I’m in family unknown...But it is late, it’s time to go...To be with you I cannot go...Enough, my dear...All flows in a single gear...D’you see, in front of that small group The two, the uniforms they wear...She’s not astonished, hasn’t anger...Of bard the memory itself Like smoke at blue sky is rather...Some other...With blood sustained each pure hand... They’d bel.ter part in friendly manner...You now come to rooms, the inner...My God, a scene from novels dear...’ -And that’s my daughter...Prepare ruins once for ever...But no answer...She’s up at once, Like shade she’s pale, but no answer...The day had gone, but no answer...- To pour half-glass you do a favour...Good heavens! Never did she shudder! Nor sudden paleness, redness has...To all these letters, tears, deeds...Its here: take it and be ‘tackling’ !) All look like silver snowy fields...Four fatal for the life the stages...The drivers all themselves incite By clapping; each his master curses...For long as if through fog she one Could follow them all with eyes...In languish of unwitting pities Onegin quickly at her feel is...A lot of stories with the whirls, With wicked ghosts and the girls...With unaccountable charms He sees his Olga in his arms...Was too afraid, I must confess...At meetings but without lights, And tears, secret torment’s gladness...Of words for songs of prairie districts...We them remind about us...And leaf by leaf through it is looking But nothing to her sister says...But darkish mirror can reflect The trembling moon alone yet...And fair sex like down’s slight...Opinions of the worldly might...By dreams of distant pretty side, About moon and charming night...For her he’s looking on... for nought...The letter’s ready, has been fit...Some balls, one children’s entertainment...Not...Began to aim... but quickly just Onegin shot...For me is now hard the gladness, Not only the grief... my heart...For nowhere am I smart...You had, I saw, some little pity, Some small respect to age, at least...Let’s come together... take a rest...She ordered secretly her granny: Prepare table for a guest...Which they in world of London grant To speak like vulgar, (but I can’t...Do not be angry, dear. you Well know: I am dull for you...And me you have in view...To-morrow we’ll Tanya show...For changes fated anyhow...In hands my fate for ever now, In front of you I tears shed: Defend my soul anyhow...But now...Her tired look and slipped away...I lagged behind as their member And ran away...Her head to shoulder’s inclining, Her light chemise is now sliding From charming shoulder away...And she, as if she’s burned by flame, Has stopped at once and looks away...As soon as I recall your stare And that your homily...Exactly...And can’t; she’s now deeply worrier!, She moans and she’d like to cry...For evening party...Of tears tracks?..You are, my Moscow, beloved of Russia daughter, and where can we find some other of the kind..He curses all unbidden guests; And half alive she can’t have breath..But why? I don’t grasp it yet). And now friends enjoy a chat..She’s nothing ever entertaining, For life she wouldn’t give a hoot..XXXIX, XL, XLI ………………….. 	………………….. 	…………………..The ladies sit at fire-place; You see in corners whispering maids;.His geese and ducks tie breeds for fee And teaches children ABC.Is whitening on Lukérya Lvovna, The same yet lies Lytibóv Petróvna.Well, many trifles like the bra.Which they are calling spleen in English, In Russian known as khandra.Etcetera.Were in the dimmish light of moon Embraced, were weeping at the tomb.The shades of night are now rare And Vesper’s met by cock ahead.In weep my plait was then undid, With songs to altar us could lead.He ceased to like (with them was led) Invectives, sables and the lead.She liked the books of Richardson Yet no because them all she read.Her Russian was yet very bad As Russian books she never read.You leave your city big, audacious, In which the winter’s mirth you’d had.He’s puffing, he is remonstrating, He swore to devil Lensky’s head For sufferings, he here had.Then took the friends for last his track Arid each of them the pistol had.With gloomy brow under hat, Who arms cross-folded has had.Of tyrant you didn’t fear, But now he your fate has had.And here she, exhausted, sad In tears bad a cough has had.At the ideal, fashioned word, A stilly dream my Lensky had.His wife herself such feeling had: From Richardson to be quite mad.But you are tortured by the road.Across a glade, all under snow Around which all’s dark and sad.And several days she after that Had been entroubled, deeply sad.Stood Eugene, thoughtful, quite alone, As poet himself described.Tell again, You see, I’m now muddle-headed.I love you, but with love of brother And may be tenderer indeed.Forgive me, but my love is deep To Tanya’s dear heart indeed.Let’s listen, yet without labour, To their talking, short indeed.Are wetting iron hard curb-bit, Like shaft they gallop with all speed.It was the art of tender passion, By Nazon brightly glorified.Onegin my To sleep at home lone flied.Of enemy from pistol parried.May I just see the banns home? Them Tanya asked.And all around dreams in still, With light of moon its all fulfilled.Was victim of the wild misleading Of big his passions unrestrained.Could catch a neighbour, who by chance Came in - by tragedy at once Him entertained.At last it stopped.Behind a stump Guillot quite scared.It now; but ‘Bordeaux’ prudent To-day to others nave prefered.As if by greenish down covered.The ashes patriarchal honoured.Without them Onegm’s pictured.And girls, at banks Salgirian captured.In tears women have embraced And exclamations have been raised.Some noise by beetle’s raised.At window he flies was killing And daily house-keeper cursed.All fashioned model of the creature Who’s dressed, undressed, anew redressed.Behind the grave my Lensky poor To deaf eternity was used.In single image they confused, In one Onegin all were fused.Buyánov courted: was refused.Affected native Russian banns, And all the neighbours were amused.They met each other, riding horse, And then became unseparated.Ah, feet, in vain I was affected.The shining skies are now blued.For district mothers pleasant image - The regimental chief arrived.All that I gladlessly survived.Past clans; the charming dreams of love, Antique moralities beloved.My father gave consent to wed.By chance I met you long ago. A spark of tenderness you showed.To meet the scholar world’s desire I could describe, you’d be amazed.Was seeming new on each occasion, With jokes innocence amazed.His nose, shoulders could raise The general, by her amazed.His conscience Lensky was revealing, His own soul criticized.On them attentive eyes are fixing By will and passion of the maid.Some lively rots in long a tale Or hearty letters of young maid.But that will do; adieu is [node: For madness tribute you have paid.In hope that by future friend Of me some sound will be said.Returned; without extra word always ready - shortly said.Some frame and lace for working fit, In silk embroider never did.To object of his love and hymns, To beauty dear, nicely languid.My poor Tanya sits, can’t sleep, And looks into the darkling field.He calmly sleeps in bed, retired From pastimes, flourishing big child.Of course, it would be so bold, Describing is what I must hold.Her thought is hiking everywhere, Forgotten are the bail, the world.Enough in common way with him We wandered in the world.With thirst of soul all them held; And she discovered other world.To come to tables hand in hand.You’ll hardly meet to-day a maiden With Russian magazine in hand.His heart, Vladimir qickly penned At tomb a madrigal by hand.Hurra! we all have reached the land.They bless the harmful ruts of land And ditches of the fatherland.Meanwhile his eyes off her can’t tear Some general important, grand.Of dreadful fancy all the meanings Tatyana wants to find the end.The love, the plants, the void, the village, The fields! to you I’m staunch a friend.At dawn who never knows yet The evening where will he spend.To doctors he is being sent. The doctors him to waters send.Such subject’s worthy of your mind: More gentle never you will find.Could my Onegin now find.Of feelings quickly came to mind, But now weakly lag behind.To hostess a lady’s heading, Some plump grand general’s behind.The old man had no time To read the books of other kind.His soul’s warmed with inspiration By lady’s greetings, friendly kind.In winter darkness of the night Was captivating heart and mind.Forgotten features can remind.The girls are jumping all around.By us the habits have been got Instead of happiness from God.In hearty letter, as its sender, He was slipshod.At the games of maidenhood.And you, well known dear wood, And charming skies of neighbourhood.Shortly each from other Were drifted they by thirst of blood.By turbid brooks have run all down To meadows, all under flood.My poor Lensky with his heart For such a life was born, young bard.Of droshky light, remote noise From Million street was heard.The winter had been longed by nature, In January it snowed hard.She looks, and all her own heart More often’s heating and more hard.But they would madden it too hard.They say, they’d got For that the best in world reward.She enters a deserted yard.The time was coming, dull and hard: November stood in front of yard.And stilly neared me in calmness. I think its you with love and brightness Could whisper full of hopes word.The barks, the smacks of kissing maids, The crush, the laugh, the noise are loud.With time I’d smooth and then might be I’d find a friend to suit my soul, Would be a loyal wife on whole, And virtuous mother I would be.But I… it doesn’t bother me: To old times I’ll loyal be.Alas! young bride, if she were trying, To sadness loyal couldn’t be.His everyday employments rather In details I should well describe.From pistol he, not being rattled, At fifteen metres stuck the ace.Unmovingly he lay, and queer Was heavy brow’s languid peace.Nor by her pleasant ruddy freshness She’d catch one’s eyes by simple face.They take away the chairs, plates, Them call, they give the friends a place.But then a frenchman took her place.Of instant thought some slight a trace, But of the same for years race.The boy was frisky but with grace.Tatyana’s flushing, all she’s trembling - To be to-day he promised me,- Vladimir answers, - may be, he For post now yet is waiting.- Tatyana stands, she drops her eyes As if reproached by the vice.Was always punished wicked vice, And good was given garlands twice.With Olga Tanya; quickly rather Onegin Olga took for dance.Not stopping coming in advance, The first of them to catch a chance.The colonel sent it for the chance.Comes in, of dead has strong resemblance.My Lensky’s feelings all were smeared, He was afraid at her to glance.The boys got dogs behind the fence And took the maiden for defence.Ah, never impulse of the sense Put rack my soul ever hence.It’s mute for ever all at once.To grasp that time he had a chance, But as a student he’s a dunce.The heirs of estate, all cross, Obscenely disputes try to force.Boom could fade.All’s blight, all’s white without shade.Like London dandy, well arrayed, First coming to the world he made.He sang of how life could fade; All that in his teenage he made.Sometimes she beat a house-maid, - All that not asking man she made.I can’t foresee any objection To this representation made.And at the brook in thickened shade Is put a monument just made.By winter carpets, snow-made.In man’s attire all arrayed, The goddess comes to masquerade.He’s handsome, rich, of fair manner. And neighbours said: he needs a bride.For husband then she was yet bride.Some real honour and the pride.Was talking much of them with pride.With secret grief I read this matter, While reading cannot put aside.And stubbornly he looks; but she Is sitting quietly, she’s free.In tender manner they agree.It means: my noon has come, its needed For me to realize, I see.As well as seeds in vital strife In earth by spring are given life.By children and by loyal wife With candid never seen in life.Alas! for funs, which can be differed, I’ve ruined much of own life.Who’s waiting for her husband sadly Alone daily all her life.And thought of her in him inspired First moan of his conscious life.Among the children would he die At hands of doctors, weepers, wife.It looked for him through all his life Like own shade or loyal wife.At such a year, such an age.It was neglected., large in gauge, Of dryads shelter for an age.Of young delirium high rage.With him be keeping, and the sledge To park in field not far from hedge.And then in secret could defame them By merry jest or real he.My poor Lensky! badly pining Not very long was weeping she.The lilt, well known round me: Reveilles vous, belle endormie.To him for tree, mysterious rather: Forbidden fruit to have you’d like, Or Eden to itself’s unlike.It is forgivable.Arid, following Petrarka’s tracks, Could calm his heart’s the biggest trouble.Iambus he, at frank confession, From trochee couldn’t tell meanwhile.At Simeon’s he’s now Living. He saw me at Twelfth-night sometime, His son was married then meanwhile.To jokes mixtured with the bile, To epigrams with no smile.His epigram’s unwaited file Could make all pretty ladies smile.I don’t like the Russian speeches Without grammar incompleteness, As well as lips without smile.Of sad misgivings she is full, Foresees misfortunes as a rile.La, sotto i giorni nubilosi e brevi, 			Nasce una gente a cui i’morir non dole.Your glance made languish me far love, Your voice was touching all my feeling For long... But that was not a dreamt You came, at once I got to know: Inflamed and heated I was whole.I don’t mean to please grand people.Good-bye, the witness of past glory, Petrovsky castle.They see encircled by its grove Petrovsky castle.But road alarm of love then filled me.To play the cards was used with me.When I to wretchers was assisting Or by the prayer was releasing From stress my soul within me.She’s after me.But foot, such small, of Terpsichore More charming somewhat is for me.Of linden alleys dimmish To places where he then came.They friends became.They all are family the same, The sons of greedy bore at game.Its morning: everyone again Is up. To her it’s all the same.All services of old time.And placid, solidly effected, In style of clever old time.In wonder style To every place he came in time.To have a rest and have a hike, That’s why I’ll finish other time.In icy bottle for the poet Sometimes is brought at proper time.For long is weeping she this time.To her is drinking first, his rhyme He gives to Tanya at that time.Of course, of him I’ll quickly know,- For him I now haven’t time.Is drawn, in turn I’ve bad nay time.It will sometime all us illume, Will gift the world some blessed perfume.Could catch the glory by the way: But I in love was dumb, inane.Until his breget sleepless, fine Will strike the bells for him to dine.She-neighbour her to outshine, Herself is though dazzling, fine.Forbidding goddess, guile inventive, Of reigning, sumptuous Neva fine.To try to find in Russia whole Of them three pairs straight and fine.And even this my chapter five — From all digressions to refine.Allow me, the readers mine, To show you her elder line.I write it, as for long my time I haven’t any sin of mine.To lesson yours attended I, To-day, you see, the turn is mine.At Verrey’s every morning’s time On credit drank three quarts of wine.The plates and covers jointly clatter, The glasses clink, all filled with wine.Between blancmanger and roasts fine They now bring the Tsimlyan wine.Pm sure... none, They’ll be the family, the one.She like the moon to shine has come Among the wives and maids the one.Have less in difference between Each one.From novel’s only beginning — I’ve finished now chapter one.Could make of clever fool for ever, Explicit or implicit one.You poets, are queer!’ -Good bye, Onegin, time has gone.Has withered at the morning dawn., The fire at the altar’s gone.But happiness of youth has gone Like light foot-prints in fields forlone.Replace the fortune.Or roses of flaming cheeks, Or bosom, which awaits for fortune.He’s blessed, who in his youth was youthful! He’s blessed, who well in time was ripe.The foes put the capes on steppe.The banks of stopped, unmoving river By shroud are equated here.Who wrote comedies with joy; With glory Didla’s crowned there.The fisher’s fire.Italian nights I shall adore.To us: from it we have not more Than mincing manners to adore.Like heat are shining crosses dear; They guilded cupolas adore.The shepherd’s singing as before And makes bast sandal more and more.Reliably well screwed the flint Is cocked once more.Did never touch hire as before, He caught the sight of nothing more.Was lost in thought; to Olga near Revengeful words said no more.Still humble, deaf like long before, Still eats and drinks for two or more.Malfilatre.Expresses death but not the torture.He under chest was wounded here, The blood yet steaming flew at ease.Between the Limburg lively cheese And best pine-apple gold squeese.With dreams and heart of old days In her this time again could raise.Eternal choir or the waves, To lord of world the hymn of praise.In gallery the claps are flying, And rising curtain makes a noise.Can press her heart, or a misfortune, That waits for her, is black, makes noise.Aggressive lenders each offends, Each has his own wit and sense.Believe (for bail I give my conscience), The wedlock will be poignant nonsense.The morning pleasant noise arose.He can’t endure such a blow; The whims of women he can curse.In shade of branch some simple cross On grave of dear, poor nurse.But well, its time I should be busy: The beauty’s letter I should use.There is a place not tar from house In which inspired bard could rouse.Fonvizin shone, a friend of freedom, Knyazhnin was always up-to-date.In life with us like new it’s hiking, And hardly will it have good fate.Sometimes will give you all the rate Of all your own real fate.The corvee yoke changed for rate, And serfs were blessing their fate.Two bullets - fitting at this rate - Will quickly settle all his fate.All my confessions must you take: For judgement yours I give my fate.I can’t I am at will your own And I give up to all my fate.They sat. The aging sleigh is sliding, Is stilly crawling through the gate.It’s late.I have without any doubts Tatyana’s letter to translate.As pawn that’s worth of dear mate.Upstairs to the highest rate.But fate for us was never steady: For long we had to separate.Is brought a long way off by fate, They must for ever separate.He is suspending This quite unpleasant tete-a-tete.The capital’s high pick was there, Of fashion patterns, the elite.By their poetic light He own soul did ignite.Are not, or far away are living, As Sadi said before I write.And unattentive smart lornette.Of girls, the tears, faints not rare: Enough he had them all en route.Tatyana now sighs and moans, The letter’s trembling on her palm, The wafer’s drying on her own Inflamed by fever rigid tongue.By new one can’t I be admired I pity old one - it’s true.Marmontel’s volume them he gave.To Eugene sent his hearty greetings: Some hints on nearness he gave.And to the same and strict revealer, To neighbourhood occasions gave.He’s hiking. Never, I believe, He has been bothered that I grieve.You make my sleepy heart revive, To my good nook more often dive.A mere hit from all I’d give.Which’s shiny, windy and alive, But selfish, idle, thirsts for thrive.In shade of old trees protective, He was in games her mate effective.But if the morals never shifted, My love to ballets could survive.With joy he knew: for wedding carriage Two weeks ahead was fixed above.Fille était fille, elle était amourese. She was a girl She was in love.Some scornful, cunning, idle ventures, - Your angry blame I grasp in haze.Were lilted with passions, lazy fidgets, With dreams of thoughtful soul’s haze.And to Onegin with wry smile From poet he gives for reading A leaf.To comfort sorrow and grief.At home did he shut himself And yawning, tried to write of self.Delights it glorifies itself, Without love it revels self.Each one by nature is restricted By contradictions in himself.Whose author bolter nature’s feeling Than Chateaubriand does himself.Onegin’s out by himself, He goes to redress himself.Alone with his soul’s self Unsatisfied was by himself.Who’s always proud of himself, Of dinner and of wife herself.Has breathed, has wailed; from nothern shelf Enchanting winter comes herself.And happy rights for own self Like haughty Moscow itself.Who left Tambóv without hindrance, He wears glasses, brown wig.Which by the girl-friends had been scribbling From start, from end in any twig.It’s both harmful and absorbing.And several minutes after that With her the waltz again he’s dancing.A mill is squatting in the dancing, By wings it crackles, flaps, is glancing.Of loos, friends and lover-maids The voice is fading.In sunny rays all sparkling, shining A block of snow hardly sliding.Mazurka’s sounding.He didn’t want to cheat meanwile The trusting heart of pure being.This way my Eugene was her teaching.To protests of soul’s voice, Suppressed his yawning by his laughing.Automedones all are dashing Untiring are troikas flashing.Together go and with him To take the box with fighting thing.Her letter of unwitting kind By love of innocence is breathing.A stream Like silver shines. And after dream By hornlet peasants have been waking.Two neighbours, home have been walking And all about her are talking.That was the way of Eugene’s thinking.In fear shameful heart is sinking.But then with books she could be dealing.Tatyana looks but isn't. soon To this world’s fuss she’s hatred feeling.Onegin’s pining, feels a smart, He seems to be consumption feeling.To Lensky he could listen smiling.At last he gave it up, and failing, Himself he found at her dwelling.That gets away of cheecks the flaming.For her the truthful sign it was That guests are coming.They laugh; the guests are now coming.Some poet from ranks of army Signed verse of villaine, though charming.All barking, dogs to her are running.A nightingale in haze of night His loud melodies is tuning.Triquet gets up; the whole meeting The deepest silence now’s keeping.To brush his nails in front of him, Eloquent madcap, wasn’t grasping.He hurries up to ring.They say, you are a lone guy, In country’s stillness you are boring.And we... with nothing can we shine, We all to see you are adoring.Nor makes get up without choosing.At their fascinating signs The flaming looks of men are fleeting.She had in hand: by fire heat That hero she was meeting.From Bade that sceptical was reading, With works of Fontanelle was meeting.A word to say, and then again To think arid think, but of the same All day and night until new meeting.At home coffee used to drink; Were poor journals for him waiting.To Talon’s surely he’s raiding. Kaverin there is awaiting.For his delight were just awaiting.That’s why in French she’s always writing.A passionate epistle’s writing.In epigrams it. would be fitting...). But let’s return to lady sitting.Regards of them to you I’m giving.Above this urn, to fate submissive, A wreath mysterious could swing.She all is trembling, paling, shying.To reverence for singing that; The poet, such great but shying.But soon to farming she began To be accustomed and relying.She hears rings of glasses, hooping Like at the funeral great, long.For flying glory don’t long.Of men, whom I can’t judge for long, As I myself to them belong.She never could caress inspire For parents; it all seemed wrong.The master’s gone God knows where, Tracks are wrong.Around carriage of the young; To see them off Tatyana flung.Was his emotional speech. Black curls his shoulders could reach.I wait: with glance when you approach Some hopes give to poor heart Or heavy dream you stop by hard Alas! deserved by me reproach.With friend a pistol fight to launch, To aim at temple or at haunch.Each year guessed for misses much: From army husbands and the march.It’s striking ten; he’s driving out. He’s flying... now he’s at porch.At crumpled canopy lies next A riding switch.In hands I have Tatyana’s letter. It’s kept by me with sacred sigh.Of hope, enmity and love, The blood was boiling, life could laugh.The coachman’s on -box with lash In sheepskin coat and red sash.And they expressed the common wish To call him dangerous queer fish.In eastern comfort being cherished Sad northern snow to embellish.Distinguished: bravely to the slush From Kalmyk horse he fell in rush.And so grew they old both.Alone to my nurse, who’s being My old friend from youth and forth.Was pedant, judging of the cloth, We’ll call him dandy for the forth.With short a word or with a cross, With question sign and so forth.In own dreams all’s being lost For long Tatyana goes forth.With waves I wished myself somehow To touch her dear feet by mouth.Let me look back.To barrels go bullets hiding; First time is clicking pistol’s cock.But as a whole their talk Is harmless, but unpleasant mock.And who inspired touching talk Which looks like madman’s hearty mock.To play by her untwisted lock, To kiss the edge of Olga’s frock.Of multiplied his own crank.And she to empty house went In which had lived the novel’s crank.At Tanya tries to be impressing My unreclaimed yet now crank.To trust his wife he was light-hearted, In dressing-gown ate and drank.The frost is sparkling, we are glad To everyone of winter prank.Yet long ago did I look For words in Academic Book.To conic again to have a look And there lone read some book.She doesn’t see yet any party Which could be helpful in the hook.In it a friend of joys quite virgin Could bless the sky if cast a look.For greetings and congratulations She gives each one her thankful look.Through grass is snaking, green and purple, Through linden trees for river’s crook.The evening sky’s more dark.Its dark.Into the box; he now bristles; Undressed, he took some Shiller’s work.Its time! - I everyday appeal.The sadness, gladness, love inflaming They all were ready to reveal.He hurries up to live, As well as he does to feel.Induce to have a stop, inviting In front of their charms to kneel.First time appeared at the rim Of outlines of my free novel.Like victim under charming veil.About Lensky’s wedding all Were sure neighbours once for all.At own billiard with two balls He played from morning one for all.The rest all gathered at the hail: Of ball the beuaty shines for all.To tell you all, what he had known, I haven’t any time at all.Such acts insulted neighbours all, They stopped to come to him at all.But you are pale... What are you feeling? ‘It’s nothing, nanny, not at all.And he returned just to the hall Like Chatsky: from the ship for ball.I’d like to use the Alban’s model: In Petersburg to show ball.It’s true, that all we live in ages, When rather boring is high call.Her summer shoes quite wet through all; Then she her handkerchief lets fall.The snowflakes are flashing, whirl, Like stars at river’s banks they fall.As he indifferently could yawn Inside antique or modern hall.Importantly repeats for doll The mother’s lessons, though small.For long Tatyana here goes At stylish fascinating cell.Is flying from the waxy cell.Fare thee well, and if for ever 							Still for ever, fare thee well.Will pass away more fast, they tell, And you will pass the winter well.Behind the mill.The waters Are still.By deep embarrassment fulfilled She has to stop, she’s standing still.It all is still.As I to loose my freedom feared Which’s hateful to my own will.His heart was sad, his voice was mournful.No should disarm him long ago, That young a soul.That’s what I am.And now sullen, now harmful Ideas trouble late his dream.In noise of world and in the still Disturb my soul’s quiet dream.Of tortures full, her heart refuges The hopes of her heavy dream.But now radiant moon’s ray Is dying out, and some quaky From earth gets out steam.With reason I remembered them.Sometimes, when he’s in bed yet sleeping, Some papers they are bringing him.And falsely sings, Applauds and crying Are greeting him.And impulses of virgin dream, And grand simplicity in him.He offers necessary service And dressing-gown puts on him.Without breath, with timid feeling Tatyana listened then to him.Three houses will wait for him.From bed Onegin wasn’t moving, The dream yet flies about him.He’s blessed... But may be she has been Amused by other, not by him.And trembling state is seen by him; All vexed, he’s being in a whim.As sign of friendship’s written in, Continued, lessened for the whim.I do remember them; in dream They trouble all my heart, such grim.He was beloved.., at least was grateful To have such hope like a balm.The snow’s rose shining charm; On Christmas evenings hazy calm.They all kibitkas brim-full load. All men and women raise a boom.Like young Lenore under noon With me was riding like a loom.They harness them in sleighs for road. The breakfast’s ready in the room.And here is the banns room.Lord Byron with his whim successful Enveloped fussy egoism In hopeless romanticism.And sheds of tears stilly stream, Her cheek on hand she has to lean.Of bold children’s secret meetings That near lime at brook began.To-day they wish to make each lady To read in Russian.Of whom they spoke till the end: N.N. is excellent a man.On table Eugene found then For funeral prepared man.His wig yet smoothing by his hand Of her inquires old man.Where we have never been.And always turned, from us - I mean. That their looks give rise for spleen.Well, I saluted classicism! It’s late, but preface has been seen.My Vanny Was younger, than myself I mean, And I was, dear, yet thirteen.But all the same, the hope them With baby-talk is lying then.To them He paid his all attention then.The head of Chaldean wise men, — Of dreams the fortune-teller then.Nor tubes of stylish expert-men From stalls and boxes ever then.By spite of fortune and of mean, While both were beginners then.Around ladies dark a frame Of gaping, like at pictures, men.But often passions were invading The mind of hermits, of my men.The balconies; with lions gate, While on the crosses jackdaws reign.Came in.And into sweet and sinless dream By soul he was getting in.By Olga’s hand the tea’s been pouring To little cup of guest adoring By dark and sweetly scenting stream; A boy already brings the cream; At window Tatyana’s standing, She’s breathing at the cooling glass And lost in thought quite deep and vast With pretty finger she is melting On misted window’s cool pane Her pattern O.E. again.The halls enormous is all then trembled, The parquet’s cracks wee heard again.She kept her manners quite the same, Was quiet bow her again.Unmoving, lone he’s again.At early morning comes for meeting With lone canopy again.Have been decayed in nature’s train Like leaves in autumn, full of rain.A menu hangs for order’s sake And teases appetite in vain.Some youthful lover ran again Behind the fuss, but all in vain.Onegin.And suddenly my Lensky enters, With hire Onegin.Tatyana’s letter to Onegin.Presents his friend and distant kin.And christened world will have the will To build per station own inn.But blessed by God of inspiration Another one in. rhymes of fashion.But was delayed for short a while As they had no rings of fashion.I can foresee: you’ll be abused By sad and secret explanation.To touch in splendid admiration.Great charm to any conversation.At first they’d nothing seen In common.He liked the stillness, lone mood, The night, the stars, the round moon.Some sweetish torture of the glory His blood excited very soon.But hero, I’m not wrong, Could never be like Grandison.In proud, touching inflammation Is blushing crimson.Are snow-bound by the storm. In depth of snow are forlorn.The fate and life in their turn To their judgement could return.By bondage Lensky’s fascinated, Gave up his soul to the fun.For centures to make him known.I was his friend some while ago.To meet a student while departing, Or scholar wearing night cap.A need for sleep.In slow gait, quite fast and smoothly Have come the fourth already step.She doesn’t see that day is breaking. She sits in bed with hanging head And on her letter isn’t pressing Her well cut out round stamp.In all her charms, to steppes yet bound, I can with jealous shyness poop.All that I don’t grasp.Onegin, standing up, At window it all read up.But dangerous for the maiden’s heart) Quite reddenning he’s missing up.At usual hour stirred up, In candle’s light she’s getting up.He’s rumbling, quickly he gets up, For door he nears, ail got up.To other things let’s make approach: For ballet we shall hurry up.On saucers jam they gave, and seldom Some berry water in a jug Put on a table, and a cup.Each day she whispers own myths Of letter to her image dear.And Olga’s yawning; round here She’s looking for her Lensky dear.In early spring of every year.It’s getting dark; already, shining, Is hissing evening samovar, It heats the tea-pot, brought from China; Light steam is whirling so far.And in addition gave to them Collection of plain fables then, With them two Pentads, a grammar.Such charming, tender.To part Eke friend, but real, eager.What blunder! I’m a punished ranger.The men all bowed her more eager And tried to catch the eyes of her.And of Onegin, far from here, Her heart reminds much more to her.The wish of heart to whisper her.To answer her.All have the supper.The time of day by tea or dinner, Or supper.But let me help with sacred water.My reader, well he now leaving For long, for ever.Field is clear In moonlight all it seems like silver.Without answer.In wadded jacket and kerchief The old woman with grey hair.Onegin’s sitting at the board By stealth is looking at the door.Monsieur Triquet is on the floor, In jersey, capped, not far from door.In paper cap for each of us To open his wasistdas.It could be known by the nurse But slow-witted all she was.Along unfinished rhymes of words No girl’s small feet and no heads.Some loss in all the song’s refrains: The song of cat is best for maids.And even nonsense having joys This idle world each time avoids.Quite badly at unknown places, Accustomed to her chamber, fields.In eyes with dismal thought of brains, Arid with a book in French in hands.Forgot the town and the friends, And boredom of the festive blends.And I was proud among friends Of new she-friend with windy trends.Convert the meadows to pools And bare, leafless make the woods.Good guy and sergeant of the guards, This Grandison could play the cards.He’ll never hear hymn of times, The blessing of the future tribes.Arose noise at parting grades: They bring from stables eighteen jades.Gets out, asks for own horse And rides.For them to love yet meant to grieve, To scare males was joy for ages.But now dear moon for us Is mere lantern in the skies.And dreams as well as cartomancies, The moons predictions in the skies.The waltz is whirling; noisy, taintless, A couple after couple flies.At clear morning he is leaving, In sledge along the river flies.Of yard boys family just flies.Smoke From pipes to chimney flies.It hurts, he laughs, through window-panes At him his mother’s finger shakes.Sometimes allured is for days: With love the Satan jokes makes.And semicircle wide of brides,- All that at once one’s feelings strikes.But talk of their dear wives By absent wit him always strikes.With age to argue is unfitness; The custom’s despot of the males.Of daily troubles.With fire in the drooping eyes, Unwittingly she slightly smiles.Tatyana trusted legend’s fancies Of simple folk’s old times.His friends arrived like vile observers Who come to funerals all times.I know: Parny’s tender rhymes Make no hit at present times.Her husband comes.At other kinds of lines.Without prejudice considers The others oils but us as ones.I was in love with it sometimes, But soon was bored by pretty creatures.La morale est dans 					la natura des choses.At inner room a cry just bangs: Princess is ill in bed, but fusses.Onegin’s coining with excuses.Departuring date again's belated And can yet run the last of dates.She parts with woman, house keeping, Behind the gates.By own or by post-chase You get away from city gates.With mill Zaretsky has been dealing: Mill-stones he investigates.The vice, that’s gentle but not feeble, In novels now celebrates.Philosopher among his mates With them his room he decorates.Some foreign words, she often writes.Is waiting for the end of dance, And for cotillion her invites.Unwittingly may bore by image Of its monotonous naked hues.I’d cheer up imagination By picture where love yet strives.Through roar of fiddles never thrives The jealous whisper of styled wives.In turn to girl were all returning With love to feet to lay themselves.He, dandy in his prime, approves All Kant’s ideas and his moves.The portraits of the tsars on walls, And motley tiles on stoves.Grand treaty’s ditties exercise; The foes stand and drop the eyes.Amusing idle gaze, all miles Are glimpsing like a fence in eyes.All are amazed, my Lensky sighs, Does not believe his own eyes.A plain inscription, then she tries To stop the dim in tender eyes.But shall I see you?’ - Tanya cries And sheds the tears from her eyes.She’s always bored by loud laughs By noise of their playful muffs.Of known ladies feet and legs.With all the fame of red high heels, With grand, magestic old wigs.Of lofty thoughts, of simple things.Necker 					The morality is 					In the nature of things.My Friends, you know, what it means: With friend of mine I’ve shooting things.A shepherd bast gay sandal’s making, Of fishers from the Volga sings.That dream aroused her misgivings.Upholsterers inspected, painted Renewed the old closed sleighs.In pride they were with males indifferent. At distance stayed from praise and sighs.Unknown in the thick of grass To bees, to moths at no paths.Decided is.With brilliant Voronskaya Nina, Of Nova Cleopatra this.But liked the spirit of his judging, Judicious talks of that and this.Quite mutely for herself she keeps, Of them to nobody speaks.In all of them restriction’s queer; Antiquity the old backs.It shows traceries affective, Informs of mind’s the secret backs.The novelty with ages smacks.For pranks reproved with gentle talks, To Summer Garden took for walks.Onegin, friend of mine for years, Was born on Neva-river’s banks.At table each of dear guests Had course according to the ranks.The cool of humble pride composed, Of ages medley and of ranks.May be, you saw at Neva’s banks Some ladies of these queer ranks.The talkative my lyre’s tired To glorify all haughty ranks.Appear profiles of heads Of ladies and of fashion cranks.Quite charming actresses, he is An honoured cityzen of links.And, covered with the frosted gown, His beaver collar now sparks.My muse new person just reveals.And boring pictures’ row, done In style of La Fontaine’s sweet novels.You may become a man of business And think of beauty of the nails.Eloquent man, by him invited, Triumphantly the answer trails.For teeth the brushes, and for nails, Some thirty kinds for all avails.On chest he puts his hand, unfortunate, And falls.At smooth of parquets in the halls, At sea on granite and at malls.It lies like carpets, white and waving, Among the fields, around hills.For us are only some tools, And all ones passionate are fools.Of others victories and own The pranks, the hopes and the dreams.In country lyre is more ringing, More vivid are creative dreams.For all his thoughts it was a passage - Unusual tongue of maiden’s dreams.The yawnings, other cold things He never saw in any dreams.And many verses, jokes, whims, And arguments, and merry dreams.Conditionally by its charms Self-willed desires it alarms.We all were taken by the dreams, As if young life anew begins.All servants gathered at the gate To part with barins.To have remorse I haven’t forces; Like Bogdanovich’s all verses I’d like all dear gallicisrns, As well as previous youthful sins.It seems to him like something awful To her remind all evening gaps.Each claps.Her maiden’s mirror yet she keeps.He comforts her in all her griefs And constantly with her he sleeps.Rather well The grove sleeps.Tatyana steeps.Or Idol mio; dropped by chance On fire journals or his pumps.Themselves to show making booms, To gleam, to charm, to fly to troops.A mute reproach, begging looks, - All that she grasps.This news Tatyana quickly hears.At foggy rivers And hills the moon just dasappears.Among the servants-maids-teenagers.My Tanya’s hugged by their daughters.Like North Aurora’s face of her, And like a butterfly she flutters.For coddled sense the best of pleasures: Perfume in bottles of cut glass.To meet princess.Appeared-vanished quickly rather, We gee, but don’t we. confess.And I - with sighing I confess - Am dangling after her much less.At Lensky Eugene looks quite forceless.In village, in forgotten stillness Of you I’d never know, thus I wouldn’t know tortures sleepless.And no hope!... full of sadness, He now curses own madness.His lunch him answered with politeness.And no brow moved she rasher; She didn’t even lips her press.But with Tatyana shan’t we guess.Perfections yours make speech my gappy, Of them I’m not yet worthy, miss.The surely we may her min Among the nets of tempting fuss.She makes her figure twine and twist, With quick her foot the foot she beats.The men confront. All cross in peace. The throng, all humming, takes the seats.Nor ballets, cards, nor verse one meets.In heaps, forgotten in the streets.In deserts of the heaven’s districts, The goddess of the sighs and secrets.The one was Eugene in these deserts, Who could evaluate his gifts.The time for strolles, much inspired, And all seductive, tempting nights.My Lensky on the dam is leaning, For them impatiently he waits.By eager enmity exited Vladimir for the answer waits.Yes! just indifferent oblivion Behind the grave for all us waits.At window she now sits.By him were left at your employments.Of boasting moustached young guards Who conquered pretty ladies’ hearts.Like long before make heart my tremble And all my soul always flirts.Through thickened crowd of the guests, Or handkerchief picks up with jests.And he invents by whim’s requests Caricatures of the guests.Comes up to Olga: several jests, And they are whirling near guests.Derzhavin old us was greeting, To tomb descending blessed he us.-I’m glad. - ‘but when?’ -Well, now just, They will receive with pleasure us.With many senses all this fuss, Which is antique for all of us.Can know time without fuss: The stomach is the watch for us.By worst of modes: modern fuss, Which is a tyrant for us.To you	give with my endeavours And bows.Are shut the shutters, limed are flirted The windows.Some cold wind just blows.You’ll find some vowes to the dear To love her until dying days.Eight years did he kill these ways, And thus he lost of prime young days.Enough the boredom on the ways: The journey took them seven days.To each grandparent to show Her lazyness dispersed for days.All days I spent in sleep, in shades, And there had my happiest days.Will take the twilight of my days.For us fine Hymen now makes And maybe yet for many days.Can’t wash her arms, her breast and face: Afraid she is of winter ways.It’s dark in valleys.And of the world new lustre, noise Fulfilled his wit with future joys.Remembered, though with mistakes, Two little verses of Enaid’s.Has own place to have a rest, From porch to maiden’s.A dwarf with tail; and there’s that Who’s half-a-crane and half-a-cat.He speeds through Petersburg, all restless, Awoken by drums’s beat.She hurries up to have a chat.Of dear friends a pretty chat.(It is the same for people simple) To curse him tried this way and that.As they are mean and simple features, You won’t see fine art in that.And now at your will is rather To punish me with scorn for that.And what.His letter’s here, quite exact.He differed people in effect, And other’s passions could respect.He puzzled over effect, In it could miracles suspect.The persons, known everywhere, And wanted fools for trampling feet.Of sorceresses words and peep Delusive are... as their feet.And full of truth which he can meet His elegies like rivers fleet.For garden now we shall fleet In which she’s got with him to meet.Then supper... time to be in bed, And soon the guests all home get.- Yes and no yet.But summer’s flying quicker yet.B By pantalones, frac, gillette - In Russian they are absent yet.She spins; a friend of winter night The splinter’s crackling making light.Should I begin my freedom flight.In languish of the loving bounds He’s spending now day and night.It’s right.The knight of freedom and of right, In case like this he wasn’t right.For noise of fuss such brilliant, bright.They don’t listen to, they cry, They argue, laugh and squeak in fright.To sit with him all day and night, Not stepping out of his sight.They all replaced for each of roberts; The tea’s been brought.Who understood it wee a hit, All his attention paid to it.Made all young heart to pine away, For someone did her soul wait.And proud language’s now lit For prose postal a bit.The greatest gossip, old cheat, The glutton, grafter, fool a bit.With his malicious evil wit, Who boils in action for a bit.For flirt she never gives a hint - For that high world is never fit.It’s better place for passing letters fit.Without service, wife or deed, By something to engage unfit.But if my wretched fate you rather Will grasp with pity little bit, You’ll never leave me such unfit.I was embittered, he… unfit.Istómina’s in front of pit, With nymths she waits to make a hit.Together for a time they sit.To journalists I put at mercy Of labour mine some real fruit.Not flaming boy for fighting fit But male with honour and the wit.His sharp, but somewhat cooling wit.Her secret heat, of which she dreamt, Whose plenitude ih heart she felt.Give arguments, but I do not: To quarrel ages don’t want.Are silent.To aim unseen at forehead pale, At distance try to make him silent.That uhlan, slave of lot his own, With her should come to regiment.The inns are absent.Haphazard wander to prevent.They joked, not without sin At Tanya’s suitor made a hint.But others made him disappoint! The slow languid was the point.The grammar; language from abroad For mother tongue they all had got.From here, deeply lost in thought, He looked at threatening flame he got.Vladimir could have odes written, - To road them Olga never got.The brigadier, a slave of God, Has peace by him forever got.Through magic crystal I could not Myself discern all their lot.And… he could not.But where now he is not... And where left he dismal rot.Became alredy quite inapt.And took him by the scruff of neck And in a gloomy corner kept.Instead she sees unknown yard, The fence, the kitchen, mews, a cart.Of grievous notes of the heart.He showed tenderness. Such start Enlivens poor Tama’s heart.It’s all decided (it’s my version) By heavens board: I’m yours at heart.In which 1 loved and suffered hard, And where buried I my heart.It was polite and not discrepant: For duel Lensky called, in short.In times of hopes, tender sadness, Monsieur was driven from the court.He could his feelings there show But not to bristle like a beast.Away in lirical a heat, He cites like Delvig, drunk at feast.To tell her something of the rest; Misgivings hardly squeezed her breast.And she herself renewed at last Night-cap and dressing-gown fast.Up marble footsteps he has flown, With hand has mended hair fast.He comes: the corks for ceiling pass, The wine like comet splashes fast.Gvozdin, good master, who could shortly Make beggars of his peasants fast.That, giving balls three times a year, He squandered all he had at last.He’s very glad that former pass He changed for anything at last.To scratch unfaithful icy path As he’s afraid to fall at last.She stayed in frosty tone darkness: Young maiden is with Him at last.To inner porch he goes fast, He’s laying down her at last.A jet of steam yet hardly flashes, its whirling, vanishes at last.But yet to make him be at rest Of pleasures won’t be the best.New way I’m starting, do my best From all past life to take a rest.He made me love him with insistence And couldn’t find some better test.Makes noise, is dark and grey, quite lost Yet isn’t frozen by frost.With jug young woman goes fast, By feet she crushes snow-dust.It seems to me, my wit is fading And silently I perish must.Was shaking. Due to Zues he’s being The heir of all relatives in trust.Deserted room alone filling You read; it’s Pradt, it’s Walter Scott.Her dream is sinister, it all At sad adventures pointed out.But yet she can’t.She loved the fraud about fears Of Richardson and by Rousseau.Believe, I’d never try anew To look for better bride but. you.In this a dirty pool with you, My friends, I have a bath like you.If I were poet like you.At any place in front of you Your fatal tempter waits for you.It’s signed by t.a.v.Dmitriyev.I love him, he’s my kin in-law.Or Sbogar, mythical a few.Of life her features have but few.Among the friends the moon’s more shining; To Moscow all beauties flew.Who loves you more than I can do Must here write a verse anew.The peaceful life with him and you, Who pictured Finnish frosts anew.And shelf with dusty books anew With mourning taffeta he drew.At time of parting furthermore It beats like ready just to blow.For boston, lomber come in sight, For whist, well famous until now.We haven’t any decent road, Forgotten bridges all decay.But at the window, not gay, Was mutely sitting all the day.The man, by muses once affected, As usual frowns alt the day.The shade of coming storm this way Is darkening all the breaking day.He has a trouble from the feeling Of spook of unreturning day.Desires, sorrows, some dreamings In soul crowded each day.When he’s at home, always there By Olga is he kept all day.And gradually rises day.Then all they grandly went away, As if they spent a business day.You let me now my ideas To tell you all this very day.In which a bloody, dreadful shade To him appeared every day.She’s playful, careless and gay, Well, just the same as every day.All line and clever at his date, A bit ridiculous to-day.From morning forth I must be sure, That I shall see you just to-day.And drifting of the country’s pastime In all her dreams looked better, gay.The herds make noise; of nightingale The song at silent night is gay.The nurse was using own way To help the girl with cross and pray.Some words, yet stilly, tries to say, But at the table could she stay.Such dread! She wants to be away, In thickets of the woods to stay.Young triumphant peasant On wooden sledge renews the way.Moldavia, that’s far away From Italy, was end of way.Like senseless rhymes of stylish In winter’s even every way.But soon, not asked for her concession, Was to the altar led away.The bugs and fleas at stations lone Each minute take your sleep away.Or may be guessed from far away That uncle his would pass away.To call some people gets away.Grandchildren once upon good day Will press from world all us away.Unwaited coming any day And each delay to get away.She went away.From Romul to the present day - In depth of mind he kept away.His horse the snow feels at present, Its trotting, lazily away.The afternoon he passes, ready Again to waste his day already.Ah! I’ll forever keep in mind Small feet of lady.The way to keep her man away! And everything became o’key.The novel’s pages of my either, At will that name well sanctify.On jade postillion’s sitting ragged, Emaciated, beard’s shaggy.And Flyanov who is not quite healthy, On chairs in a room are wealthy.All’s By now much dilapidated, Indeed, I don’t know why.K. Vyasemsky.Baratynsky.The pilgrim young, you know why, Should long ago home fly.He looks and sees: the time is high Away from yard for mill to fly.And listening Id my singing rhyme From banks they all together fly.The reapers dip the jars for best Arid pleasant clear water daily.Explain to you, do it frankly.All bow, shuffle, gladly smile, Wet-nurses scream, the babies cry.Like crank by chance at feast enormous He’s angry.But, seems to me I’d wish, of course To fill my fate with kind of glory.To leave the world I would he sorry.He laughs - they all are laughing further: He frowns - all are srient, wry.Vladimir answered short, was dry. Then he was mute, his face was wry.Thanks God, had any wish to try; But at the life his look was wry.But I am ready to refuse As its translation isn’t easy.The world said: why, He is a clever, pretty guy.The noise, the laughter, running, bows, Mazurka, gallop, waltz.He can’t give happiness at large’.Forgive me’.For tears, rhymes and so on?… Present me her’.As well as ruddy foolish moon At the horizon’s foolish brightness’.Of morning flower which then At halt of life must wither faintly’.Too long by ballets I was pressed, By Didle too I am depressed».I’m free, but look for union, geared In sound, sense and temper game/But persons ordinary for us Are never strange, they fit all u.0XLVI1X U1All heads are now grandly shaking The neighbours whisper (they are wailing):But in a while the guests from suburb Are making up a common hubbub:The great prosperity lo waste - To have at home he intended:You see, by skies its predestined:They don’t cost yet neither sense, Nor any songs, by them inspired:Astonished being and amazed, - As if by nothing she was harassed:But now doubts all are solved:Him scenting, horses on the road All snort, and travellers quickly hold:At once behind the door awakens The sound of bassoon from band:Of old age triumphant customs At home were supported hard:And exclamations at the board:Report for him was so sudden From steward:But several books of common row Himself excluded from disgrace:The habits sugared all her woe Which wasn’t smoothed by any chance:Turned off, then yawned and said at once:But soon she all was full of go, By it she calmed herself at once:Buyánov, my quick-temperd brother, To Eugene brought two girls at once:Arrives he now every day; Her follows like own shade:They were some secret good traditions Of tender, shady old age:With my request immodest, gladless I’d trouble you for helping me:To him she doesn’t pay attention, You strive or die, it is the same:It was well known friendly wellcome:Of three kibitkas transport own Can bring belongings of the home:With all her cooling beauty lone Did like the Russian winter fine:A bottle of some light sweet wine, Some solitude, the stillness fine:He wanted to establish own, In orders newer fashioned line:In them he draws the country whole, The Kyprid’s temple, graves alone:His Olga’s jumping from the porch Like feather-brained and trail a hope:He thinks of here:A smooth-tongued voice of world, it happened, His evil bravery could praise:Green tables are prepaired now, All active players they invite:But all the nothern Russian summer Of south winter bad burlesque:You help my doubts to resolve:Of poet, who’s anyhow Convicted to the truthful love:Like Harold Child Onegin’s fallen Into the thoughtful lazy haze:And nothing cooled his strong belief:By those phantoms he, vain seeker, Should not in vain exhaust himself:Let’s visit them; you’ll be obliging: Or otherwise you judge yourself:Well, she had found charming secret In sense of horror by itself:He rules her, but neglectly gliding, And, bending, whispers her his finding:The more to light the darkness fits. In vain for fields she’s now looking:To silent room of bard, alarms And wakens Lensky by appealing:Who pleased her soul and the mind, Much more was touching all her feeling:I’ve been deprived of that; I race, At hazard after you I’m dangling:What languid is her gaze guile charming:The end of life; of loss confess With no hopes for regaining:An Lane’s home from the morning Is full of guests, of kin adoring:On day the third at early morning Tatyana saw and was adoring:To her they gave a little ring, An old song began to sing:In games with doll can train for mild Decorum of the loyal living:As object of the judging noisy, In life you’d never have a wish:Onegin had that room for living, In which his uncle lived on earth:Somehow, Without prefaces, just now, For hero of my book Let me attract attentive look:She feels herself like all her dear Of books beloved main persons feel:Described for us the snowfall, {l5} The winter’s bliss and tinges all:For theatre Onegin’s speeding. In it each man is free at all:But suddenly was changed it all:You listen to my grievous call:Of younger beauties generation Will follow the journal’s call:The doubts all confused her soul:And slowly through fields she’s riding, Immersed is deeply in the dream:The Gulnare’s singer imitating Across this Hellespont could swim:On reddish paws a goose, such heavy, To get to waters wants to swim:In country’s place the man of wisdom, He gave his serfs a piece of freedom:In them I’ll write of simple speeches Of dad, of uncle, old man:Enough... and has been done the burden:A pedant but of science man. He had a happy talent then:He quickly sleepy was from them, And grasped all clearly by then:Alas! I must repeat again:In shade of two pine-trees quite old; Inscription can to you explain:New Regulus (of honour God) Anew he could the bonds abandon:But Nazon was by world denied And suffered past rebellious session:To grammar will subdue us all, To verse will pay too much attention:In general he gave them hell, But any rule has some exception:To dissipate her greatest woe	 Judicious husband had a go:Annette; And on the last one you read so:In them you can’t see any changes, They keep in patterns old gap:They bark and laugh, they whistle, clap, They sing and speak, like horses stamp:I’ve read it up:And asks him stilly, sweetly sighs More tenderer than reed-pipe dear:A jug for apple juice he took, An old calendar in order:Of Giaour, Juan famous singer, With him some more two-three might linger:And. told her:But it’s enough to speak of her:Tatyana hadn’t any trends To play with them in any weather:But all his journeys and the trips, Like all in world, began to bother:What shall I do, I can’t foresee; The same she says to all but sharper:Among admirers obedient I’ve seen she-cranks of other kinds:The prince as if anew him sees:By fire of the praise and sighs To tempt the heart of girl yet tries:Ali that has gone like sound’s fizz, And dear Tanya’s youth all dwindles:Onegin got Tatyana’s message. It quickly touched his soul’s strings:And with her eyes all them adoring She looks around and she speaks:She thinks:Zaretsky’s bitten both lips; To Lensky Eugene then appeals:They kept in peaceful life some customs Of dear old days; it means:The bear drags behind and groans; In front of them she sees and moans:At margins of the books she’s meeting Of reader’s pencil slightest signs:But from. the shaggy lackey-bear She cannot get away, She flaps:Mazurka now all its rating, Initiative beauties keeps:But suddenly the wind has blown Away the lire of all lamps:In crowd everybody renders:Without gold can revive While simple product is its richness:But no man in all the district Could ever know of that fuss:What does she see? that at the boards Are sitting spooks of any sorts:Sometimes in dream they all, whom dote, To soul mine arrived like guests:Yet does it whirl the world and us:The woman says:In dark my Tanya’s quite upset With nurse in whisper has a chat:With unexpected consolation Unwittingly some thought of that:You are guessing To know; you are quite exact:One day to their isolation And for Tatyana they then bought:His pen with love is always sighing Without coolness of the wit:And by degrees to sleep he’s reading His passions, thoughts, his own wit:Zaretsky was explains refusing; To stay for long he didn’t want:The ringing voice of Olga, though, From Larin’s soon forever went:Of any ink not any spot, In room two cupboards they had got:It might he other: he’d he having Some common, plainful, simple lot:But anyhow, dear reader, Alas! it was young lover’s lot:And stilly does she say at last:I liked his features in the past:With heavenly her pride she’s touching The earth when conies to take a rest:In house-keeping he was best Arid any problems put to test:In front of them when they were near White-stone Moscow they saw:He was in dances quick and light, Without tension he could bow:Tatyana’s interest is affected By melting on the fire wax:But at the time of cold winter The drive is pleasant all the day:At him she stares all the way:Through nose singingly could say, But soon her mood could pass away:You, country Priams, should be ready; And you, each sensitive a lady:It means the following thing mainly:Five hundred years), roads, may be, In all the state will change invently:Before arrival; anyhow She isn’t bothered (that’s female!);One’s horned, with muzzle of a hound; Another has of cock the head;First time indeed my muse just now To worldly rout I can lead;Of State the envoy always spoke About needs, the State had had;In Tanya’s, Olga’s rooms all maidens Already happy dreams have had;Its window is brightly shining, Inside much noise and fuss they’ve had;And old barin room this had;You tell, of them which is Tatyana?’ -That girl, which’s always so sad;In grief of love Tatyana goes To their garden, she is sad;The way is short, from dear neighbour They go home fast, at speed;With you I now tears shed;But suddenly her sister’s coming, Then Lensky comes; the light has flashed;At his Penates, quite permissive Vladimir honoured all, who died;Some old ladies had been seated, All capped, with roses, looked wicked;To be the rest of year free Congratulations are accustomed;All’s good: for vigil and for sleep Will come the hour well geared;And not because the Grandison To Lovelace was by her prefered;Embarrassment, her being tired Arosed pity, he’s admired;Are drying valleys many-coloured;And gaze attentive of her maidens; She daily greatly is depressed;He thought she would be much confused, By his arrival much abused;And gave this person all the beauty, And made him wrongly persecuted;Alas! my Eugene, no doubts, With Tanya is in love like child;Her head; is seeming to be ready For deep a faint, this being mild;Or in the garden hand in hand They walk at morning so grand;My life has been a pawn but fruitless Of meeting with my dear friend;Implacable at their ages, Inscrutable for all my mind;On third day, looking all around, He saw nor copse, nor hill, nor ground;The hall is full of crowd; The music’s weary of sound;The old woman was admired By that advice, such simple, good;In flame by wit to cool each minute The agitation in the blood;For quiet leisure after work; For lively pictures, salted word;Of course, he thinks, ‘I could be scornful To alt his funny, lying word;They had invited several maids With never smiling, sullen face;In afternoon they squash and crowd, In drawing room they meet new face;All over the Baltic waves For forest, fat and hand-made lace;And many boys with joyful cries Are scaring on sonorous ice;At any novel those features, Her own portrait, very nice;Not very long he could behold The girls as object of his choice;The door of coffin was unclosed: To have new wreath he got a chance;The yard was under snow dense: Parterres, roofs and all the fence;Or tenderer - like little moth Which sucks spring flower with force;Perhaps, in Lethe won’t perish My verse, by wit and heart well made;Who made his life not cooled, but useful, With years could his aims abide;Sometimes Onegin was surprised, With what could mutely coincide;The highways Russia will unite, Connect and cross its any side;Cast-iron bridges over waters Will go like a bow wide;To fix her fate it’s time, I see;And by the people’s usual custom On Christmas must we come to see;With Russian hammer and the might Return to sleighs the foreign image;And she insensibly is drifting, She doesn’t move and doesn’t breathe;And youth of those vanished days All after her could wildly dangle;Of old times the heat of feeling, May be, could capture for a while;At last like dead to petrify In deadly thrill of world on whole;We knew the game of passion’s oath; By life were anguished as a rule;A poet by will of goodness, New devil then will enter me;Child-Harold’s copy, grim, morose To inner rooms and halls he came;I ask: be patient for a time;To make the friends embroiled become, Made friends to barrier to come;By chance his verse yet anyhow Is kept by me; you read this rhyme;The days were speeding; heated air Could mean: the spring is coining fine;Yet outside, as well’s inside, The lanterns everywhere shine;I simply wrote Of idle, blackish dreams of mine;When she recovered she is looking: Some inner porch... the bear's gone;Of thoughts dead capital again To raise from dead you’ll give a hope;Can’t now blame: that dreadful time To be more honest could you dare;And even by her trembling hands To lift her dress ashamed she's here;The smile of lips, the move of eyes To catch by loving eyes somewhere;To see you more to have a chance. To follow you everywhere;They speak to him of no more, But being bachelor is bore;Iván Petróvich’s fool and bore, Semyón Petróvich stints yet more;And she, that young and lovely creature;Mazurka is the crowd’s choice; All round are crush and noise;His passions were too quickly cold, And he was bored by worldly noise;Of traitresses quite young at all, Of mates despised a circle close;In them in stillness of the day He real tears could expose;And parents foresaw the fate: Were calculating wedding date;To tiresome this drive, all failing, An hour or two they gave;He pined away, he was dissuading, Was dull and jealous, made believe;Uneasily she was expressing Her thoughts in mother tongue expressive;Or on the lyre draws a dove With pens and paints, with all his love;By thoughts of her each one another Unfavourably try to daze;His ardent talk was full of haze;With more bow can be meeting, Sometimes at all him isn’t seeing;Who hates the moving and the word When you translate him their meaning;Or where Thalia’s stilly dreaming To friendly claps yet isn’t listening;With threat Onegin raised his hand And wildly with his eyes is shining;He saw in it some dreadful harm; The other smiled, but smile was cunning;Yet someone hisses, feet are stamping, Some blow nose, cough, are clapping;He may each entrechat catcall, Or hiss Moina, Fedra greeting;At clavichords he had been sitting, But only for chords was fitting;At neighbour’s monument submissive He dedicated him a sigh;Tatyana tries to listen better To interests of the common clash;But in the parlour all are flattered By such a trifle, banal trash;Again his time Onegin counts, Again the day is dragging forth;He now leaves the noisy rout. He goes home, has to think;Meanwhile small foot in hands l feel;While she’s by tinsel gown waving In front of her some throng to hail;And many pages yet are keeping Some sharpened markings by the nail;The first he made - he left you all;Was not astonished at the dawn To see him coining to his hall;The sledge for race is now ready, In it he’s flying to the mill;Yet being child, at any year Tatyana didn’t play with doll;Sometimes himself, not as a rule, Could he entrapped like real fool;You see, your Larina is plain, But very dear old soul;Tatyana silently curl lean, Her languid head she bent to him;That she, delightless in the near, Is daily waiting just for him;But somewhat pale and rather thin, And yet she’s looking rather slim;But saw: annui, the rave, the harm, The fraud; nor shame, nor sense, nor charm;For epigrams was always greedy With everything quite cross a Dan;By cunning husband he was greeted, Of Faublas previous a fan;Will never tremble their hand To beat the slander off a man;-it’s right, but may be you will show The pipe, the dagger and the man;Some days was crying, then was trying To get divorce from newly man;To call Anisya children go, To take the keys from porch they ran;Some grove, hamlet under hill, Behind the river sees a garden;With Lea, that’s given him too sweety; With ladies’ flatness; tunes of men;Unwittingly in mirror’s peeping Ashamed to recognize: he’s beaten;And then I thought: He’s now in;Nor sharpness, nor some sign of mind, Nor of communal life succession;Of partings, jealous indignation, Of tears of conciliation;Unwittingly, you see, the lives Confuse yet me with incarnation;He, might be, for the world’s welfare Or even for the fame was born;From everything to me legated, I had my heart for ever torn;Was languishing and taciturn, Eloquent ardently in turn;In thoughts her face too pale he found, She often seemed to be cast down;She runs for forest... he’s about; The flabby snow is knee-deep;By love her grief to lull to sleep, Some uhlan could her flattered keep;Yet some of weary men-servants At entrance on fur-coals sleep;Tatyana poor is in heat; in bed she never falls asleep;Each name from France by Russian name, Forgot princess Alina dear;He’s not been seen, none word from dear;You all my slipshod stanzas here: For recollections restless dear;That he’s the head - it all is clear And Tanya has much less of fear;You give a pen and paper, dear, I’ll stay in bed; make table near;That he at love such timid, tender Last evening joked like offender;The ladies tried to her to near; The old women smiled on her;The novels were for many years Her inner life, were liked by her;Night sentries, far from one to other, In stillness called each one another;All satisfied at feast by dinner The neighbours puff in room, the inner;Of family; not married yet; A real friend, a landlord, ripper;With her he’s ever in her chamber Until the daylight turns more fainter;Of dawn the ray all crimson sparkles And Olga opens the door;Without purpose or a spite Would not repeat for days in error;By greyish Kalmyk: wears glasses And torn a coat, socks in hands;Again he, downcast and thoughtful, In front of dear Olga stands;On shaky bench, and own head To Tanya’s shoulder he bends;That there are by fate selected Of people dear sacred friends;At goose’s neck a skull is fateful, It’s whirling round for all sides;It came, it scattered, it is hanging On boughs of the oak-trees;But nowadays the frosts are crackling (A rhyme for cra.ckling, one foresees;Not seeing any use of porches Through chink she now stilly watches;At any place you fancy him, The refuge for the happy wishes;In haze are now minds of people: The moral them to sleep just makes;And thus the time would pass; meanwhile They ask, and Olga tea prepares;Would come, she innocently grieves, Her languid eyes to moon she raises;The first of leaflets just can show: Qu’ecrirez-vous sur ces tablettes;My pen has no old wishes To spoil some useful flying leafs;She sighs, assuming as her real Delights of others and the griefs;To take it up she can’t, in fear Of bear: he about hangs;By got by Olga strange tuition She’s touched, in depth of soul sighs;He’s not a fool; Onegin, grudging, Did not respect the heart of his;He tried his cooling word to own, To keep away from man like this;I last and poor mite was giving For you myself, remember this;His temper, in his chair sitting, And aims to own each other’s brains;They were at Shrove-day accustomed To have the fattest Russian blins;Of trusting soul hard confessions, Of pure love such good expressions;The folly’s wicked, giddy, needs Grand rubbish for the grand high persons;Of waters, forests and of hands Is master in the country borders;Sometimes himself for tricks on others Was given lessons by the others;At any sides we’ll hills divide, Will dig the tunnels under waters;The nightingales, of spring the lovers, At night all sing: dog-rose flowers;She doesn’t glare at the rest, And doesn’t claim to have success;We must all time all them caress, Respect and love at heart, not less;For it I shall repay a lot By my admission, truly artless;I like teenage’s lively madness, The tightness, brightness and the gladness;But landlords of the country’s peasants Were never liked by him at feasts;She capital forgot at distance, Its lustre, all its noisy feasts;We easily betrayed her daily And she was cheating all of us;His verse is sluggish and obscure (It’s called romanticism by us;In front of darkened silent homes, Along the sleepy streets in rows;Without fail you’ll find them here: Two hearts, the blooms, the torch’s rays;But never wanted to correct; To censorship I’ll pay my debt;Of Russian works he something read, Rejecting nothing for effect;Onegin was as mute as dust, Tatyana pined for love in secret;I grasp its vanity, and never Too much I was attached to it;In front of him gay fancy’s giving His Pharaoh, and tries to fit;Yet Cupids, devils and the serpents Make noise and hop in front of pit;In days of gaiety and wishes I could at ballets lose my wit;And passions which were mute and heartless; To praise yet you l don’t want;Not far from Tanya, young and grieved, My dear dreamer quite respondent;And yawned with happy wife and friend, Not troubled by the jealous torment;Could come such proud or obedient, Could be attentive or indifferent;And to the river, lightly clad Beneath the mounting he went;At first are silent her observers, They look at her from head to foot;By honeyed dream he was amusing The doubts of his own heart;With own wife that’s very portly Came stout Pustyakov at last;Visantine tubes with amber, treasures Of bronze and porcelain of the past;He ceased to fall in love with beauties And dangled after like the rest;In talks all’s plain, its all indifferent, Yet slander they without interest;In own family she was Like strange a girl in thoughts quite lost;The fire’s dead; and under ashes Like gold is the coal’s crust;I might be deeply loving you, But getting used I’d run from you;To you I’ll give my service; forward You keep on mind my speech to you;I’ve heard some voice of new desire, I’ve got new sorrow anew;She’s been embarrassed, cannot now Him understand yet anyhow;Like life of bard, such simple, honest, Like kiss of love at dawn of day;Like he, she was well-dressed, in fashion, In best attires every day;All evening Lensky was distracted, Was now silent, now gay;With his she-wolf, in hunger bold, A wolf is coming to the way;At break of dawn the night is cold; In cornfields work has ceased away;His eyes the books were reading, But all his thoughts were far away;Of album leaflets with his care To decorate he works away;You get along the Neva’s route, Newborn by me the work of fancy;The night then comes, the moon is mooving Around distant parts of sky;From them: she new blazes greatly, She feels herself in passion badly;He makes a sign and all they bother; He drinks and all they drink and cry;For hot discussions of the gentry, The terror of the midnight sentry;With talks about novel hazy; With symbol, making sisters crazy;You, dreams, my dreams, where is your pleasure And rhyme to it: my youth, my treasure ?To loose his colour he’s beginning: She doesn’t see or she’s too hard!?Impossible!?That spring of youth could quickly speed (As I could joke until now)?Him nothing there can alarm, The world for him is shut dud dumb?My soul, long ago dead, And all for it seems dark ahead?By whom was tenderness inspired? - With words neglectness who’s admired?Was he, the youth, a singer gloomy By fatal treachery confused?But who is that, in throng selected, Is standing mute and unaffected?I write to you - what more or other To add to all by this is said?And what for is can now lurid?Or will he be a lad good natured Like you and I, like all the world?What’s the end?Is not it so, friend?I loved you, I for love had hunger, But what in all your heart could find?And how, with your heart and mind, To he the slave of sense, not kind?Is really the secret’s found?For long has chance with us to be?Insults all proud paltry males: The wit them presses, needs a space?Such time what can you do in village?I don’t grudge: why should I grudge?Who’s he?But are you listening yet to me?And passed away of tears time?My dashing Eugene?And where is her sister line?Well, I remember... has he gone?You didn’t like me; What has happened, That after me you now are?What does next day for me prepare?My goddesses’ what are you? where?To ride a horse in steppe severe?What purpose?What’s use?Indeed, d’you have this kind of mate Destined to your severe. fate?Each other day be seen I must, That I am rich in wealthy caste?And that... but afterwards you’ll know, Is not it true?Indeed she now could behave Indifferently, could be brave?What for to grieve?For what and where do I strive?But can’t you really absolve Her passions, if you them revolve?About girls, you meant above, And how did you fall in love?But whom to love?Of humble girl some secret love?Of many kin suspicious gaze, Of husbands friendship’s heavy haze?To write about otherself As if about ownself?Like Harold, Quaker will he fit? Like hypocrite or other fig?But nowadays... explain the gist; To feet of mine what is you leading?And who, d’you think, from it is looking?Surprises deeply all his reeling?About what she’s now dreaming?And what’s Onegin doing?In front of you in pangs to stand, To pale, to fade... That is the blessing?Invitations for a meeting?What was the sequence of the meeting?Whom you’d be trusting?Among his victories to thrive, And his amusements gratifying?For how long?Or really she guessed not wrong?Who carefully us can cherish?Who helps from slander not to perish?Annoyance? bustle? or anew Some love - the trouble of the youth?To walk?Or, as before, he plays the crank?Are you the same, or others dared To change, replace you there all?Is being deaf and dumb at all To sad and desperate your call?And where everything’s at freedom? The same yet girl... or its a dream?- But why you so indisposed Are speaking bad about him?Because we restlessly disclose Defects; are bustling; judge the whim?But will it come, my day of freedom?The same yet girl, whom he in whim Neglected then like meek for wisdom?She was him asking: For long he's here? Where from?To whom my vice is not a harm?Who never bores us by his charm?What for yet here has he been?Like tiresome a rank of ghosts, In face has loftiness or spleen?Of girls, which never had that sin As they are only thirteen?What’s my Onegin?If their district visits on?Because her love is not of fashion, Obedient to the call of passion?Onegin’s fixing eyes upon; Where are compassions, perturbation?For you the glory and the laud, The father’s land, incarceration?In Harold cloak, hat with brim, Or other whims interpretation?And what’s the reason?And am I soon at thirties turn?And is it true, it can’t return?But shall I fall by shaft through pierced Or will it pass beside, will slip?The neighbour... order to your guy: Not say a word he must be ready, By no means to call my name!’… -To whom, my dear?Shall I again your chorus hear?D’you hear?Where is it better?In happy heat on moral lecture By chance could give her like preceptor?Who isn’t bored to be dissembling, To tell the same who never ends?Who grandly tries but mere rambling To prove the people: eggs is eggs?Because we often take the talkings For real, useful, vital things?Because remember bitter mourning When hear noise of forest’s thicks?His own works?Of legislator of the halls?The ghosts of unearthly whims, Of sacred poetry dreams?What has been moved inside of him, In soul lazy, cool, delightless?In actions husband’s mutilated, And us for that at court caress?What for you visited all us?Who’s that, which never us betrays?The withering of own days, Which can’t revive by any ways?What?And what?And what?And what?With yawn I’ll cover disrespect And shall of bygone recollect?And in the world could help to back Seductive though small respect?In what a waste, when? where? how? You, madman. will all them forget?Of stylish words some ready set?Ah, feet, such small, where are you flow, What vernal plants are trampling yet?Is he a parody not yet?Shall see emotional flight?Tatyana, tell: for whom is it?Will be like Melmoth? patriotic? Cosmopolite? or has he got it?What more you want?What will he choose for his engagement?Of youthful passion and of thought, Exalted, tender, bold, prompt?With which to start?May be, in vain he was at feasts Such careless and fine at least?Of what a languor’s full her breast?Can it be real that at last My youth had withered in the past?Not Eugene he’s at most?-But what about?But what I’d want? what task am aiming By opening my heart. to you?How would you not love Moscow?What kind’s he now anyhow?Is he the same or quiet now?And then from people far away To give her lessons all the day?Of fraud she knows nothing strictly And wants to dream her life away?H’m, h’m! You, generous my readers, Are all your kinsfolk o’key?And wayward, willful is her head? Or heart is flaming, tender, healthy?What does the kinsfolk mean namely?But really?What are you: angel guardian trusty Or tempter treacherous and ghastly?But why Talyana should be guilty?THE ENDCHAPTER THREECHAPTER ONECHAPTER FIVEIIIIIIIXX IBut IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIILIIILIIIXLIIIXLIIIXLIIIXLIIIXLIIIXLUIIIVIIIVIIIVIIIVIIIVIIIVIIILVIIIXLVIIIXLVIIIXLVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXVIIIXXXVIIIXXXVIIIXXXVIIIXXXVIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIXXXIIIYIIIXYIIILIILIIXLIIXLIIXLIIXLIIXLIIXLIIVIIVIIVIIVIIVIIVIIVIII, II, III, IV, V, VI, VIILVIIXLVIIXLVIIXLVIIXVIIXVIIXVIIXVIIXVIIXV, XVI, XVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVIIXXXVI, XXXVIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXXXIIXYIIXYIIXXYIILILILILIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIVIVIVIVIVIVIVILVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXILLLLXLXLXLXLXLXLXXXIX, XLCHAPTER SEVENCHAPTER TWOCHAPTER FOURCHAPTER EIGHTVVVVVVVIVIVIVIVIVIVIVLIVLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIII, XLIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIII, XIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVLVLVXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVXVXVXVXVXVXVXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXXXXXVIII, IX, XXXXVIII, XXX1XIXIXIXIXIXIXIXLIXXLIXXLIXXLIXXLIXCHAPTER SIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXXIXXXXIXXXXIXXXXVIII, XXXIXXXXVII, XXXVIII, XXXIXLXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXYMeanwhile he’s dressed for walk at morning, His bolivar he’s having on	{3]He trembles... to princess he’s coming; His Tanya lone he is finding_Oh, don’t know dreadful dreams You, my young SvetlanaEugene’s letter to TatyanaPerhaps, you would agree, that is By marble charms unable NinaIt was because of cousin dear: In Moscow princess AlinaTo whom your hearts were dedicating,- In written Russian they were badAnd what insidiousness you show, When you amuse a man half deadThe chief of rakes, a tribune-tippler. — Hut now simply good the headTo get him up she isn’t asking, Not taking eyes off all his headAnd I confess: from them I fled: It seemed with horror I had readLet’s readThank God, more clearly - she’s feeling The man, for whom to sigh she hadTatyana heard with indignation All those gossips, but she hadIts time for dinner, Guests have hadLet it be so: you have hadNor Scott, nor Byron, nor Seneka; The Lady’s Fashion Journal hadAnd she has hadTo have some quick and restless fancy? Because her will and wit has hadThey’d better laugh before they hadThat under gale, en waves in boat All over the sea crossroadExtinguished ash will not be heating, Without tears I am sadShe deathly pale was looking round And all her face was greatly sadThat you had come, my dear vision In darkness came for head of bedWith Ozerov all were delighted, Semyonova with him dividedCan it he real anyhow Without elegical deedNot madrigals my Lensky’s writing In Olga’s album, and indeedBy lordly Byron portrait bright, By doll cast-iron and diminishedBy many signs she’s always worried, In secret way all objects hurriedTo have a talk with her he triedSuch custom’s known everywhere: To marry daughters every triedFor long by fate of Lensky, striking, Unwittingly her soul’s filledAt waters shining in the still, A muse had come to me, it filledOf praised grandfather’s old age: The Lovelace fame is now rottenedHe’s blessed, who with his love combinedZaretsky thirty second step Has measured with exactness caredSome string of love in her appeared, In love affairs she was gearedAt once Anisya then appeared; Through porch the way was quickly clearedOr not for long her heart was shatteredSome merry magpies Tanya sees, All mountains were smoothly coveredHe was afraid of being answeredAppolo’s children took it sacred; For Albion proud lyre ratedThe caravan of crying geese For south fleeted. And unwaitedTo him among the lines all printed His eyes in spirit always hintedInheritage, he had by then, Not seeing loss in all, he wastedThat hermit idle and despondent Yet recently in winter livedSome round dance away disperses: Behind the river smoked, blazedTo bring her features clear, plain, Simplicity of country maidCritic strictly Demands from us: be getting ridCan daily headlong ride full speed; When she alone in the fieldAs sign of lust for future being The master of her home, childAnd rent the ear-rings of gold; Then brittle snows fastly holdThe sleigh has stopped; to auntie old, Consumptive now, to beholdAnd may be tracks of secret fear Of own husband and of worldAt boring stage some known actor, And, turning to unknown worldMore brave than sound man, a grand His message wants to send: weak handTatyana hardly sighs, the man Addresses her with verse in handShe’s troubled by the jealous trend: As if some cold foe’s handAnd you, my reader dear, gracious, In your borouch from other landThat uhlan’s loved by all her soul… At altar now does she standNot grasping ways to understandHe’s blessed, who feast of life was leaving In time, not drinking to the endTo me true compass now lendTo ask you: leave, do not be funny. You know, in your heart I findThe movings, voice, the figure fine, All Olga has... but you can findOr dismal eye will never findOn branches of the pine permissive Sometimes an early morning windShe now from the hill comes down, And hardly breathing looks aroundHe tried, but of the work persistent He felt yet sickness. Nothing goodOf Moscow young graces goodIn village cuckold but good, In wadded overall with hoodBut now - God! - is cooling bloodNot long ago they like brothers Divided meals, ideas, floodEach topic’s argued at the meetings: To meditate they were in moodFor long Onegin couldn't bear That tragical and nervous moodEach day was shorter at the noon, The secret canopy of woodYet limpid is the near woodHe isn’t more… The youngling bardIt Tanya knew of near duel, At least the day before had heardThe fixing time; the poor bard In silence drops his pistol hardHe is seeking New ways. The second day, the thirdAnd no nonsense in the world Or epigram with brutal wordPrepared for the sake of money To sighs, to boredom and to fraudShe waited, looked and anyhow She said: well, yes! it must be HeBut dear friends, it all is useless: If I in future won’t beAmong Moldavian dismal thickets She visited marquees in peaceCould not repeat, yet being shameless, That I could scribble own faceSome madridgal of old days, And presses hand; at once her faceIn which for winter had a place. Storm windows, the fire-placeIt may be, with itself has carried Some sacred secret; evil choiceYet speaks of Him; and she avoids The sounds of the tender voiceBut none a thought for days is flashing; At neither random nor by chanceBut like a house all deserted It’s dark and still, and not by chanceWas asking Olya him at onceBut he is stubborn: to renounce Unfit, yet hopes, hustles; bounceYou hear voice of little source, You see grave-stone small and coarceAway from Eugene’s lips; morose, He’s awkward, hardly has he forceAnd heated by the pure passion This agitated person badeIn winter, when the night’s weak shadeWas terribly unsatisfied. With every man at any sideThe talks are saved for time much better: The mouths chew, From every sideYoung ladies on the floor all glide But yet in towns, countrysideGod knows, whom by words you dart; Of elegies the precious codeHe so used to live in visions That he could go mad quite freeSome darkling blessing to invite To know better bliss of lifeBesides, opinions of the husband By very good and virtuous wifeWith medal for Ochakov playing, Intended Olga for my wifeAt boring aunt’s my Tanya meeting Once Vyasemisky in his good ageCan live like real wise a ma7i: Like that Horatius with cabbageFor mill they all have had resolved At dawn in time to come in carriageDirects it constantly, each minute At her, who by her own imageThen let the poet enraged To play the fool: at his teenageTo all he seems to be some strange; In front of him the faces rangeIn it, sometimes, on rare sundays At window, in glasses, heAs now not at any time He could bear-steaks and Strassburg pieAll lots that time became alike; And then I married, I would likeThe autumn golden is coming, The nature’s now trembling, paleAgainst Tatyana in a row They sit. Of morning moon more paleSometimes could keep his answer dark; Sometimes a quarrel could enableAnd give you all that 1 could scribblePerhaps I’ll grieve if in a whileOf love mad sufferings she’s feeling . Without ceasing for a whileBut after first cordial greeting Zaretsky’s silent for a whileThey argue louder; he’s getting Some long a knife; in short a whileMeanwhileWithout mincing style was shining, But interrupted was meanwhileWe must meanwhileBecause uncautious ardent soul Annoys, ridicules, as a wholeRevealed his own soul simple, Meanwhile malevolance of peopleWith hard emotion yet tender I am enjoyed by breath such gentleEach man has enemies, but yet From friends defend us God a littleI now see, of it confessing, That even my such poor styleIt’s true; to you I had boon listening, In stillness spoke. you to meBy nothing bound, I’m a stranger: I thought: the freedom, peace for meAnd how often muse my tender Delighted silent route for meMy friends, on bard you’d have a pity: Of hopes rain-bowed at primeFor world has done yet nothing titling, To grow male yet hadn’t timeHis life was calm, without woe. Sometimes his neighbours in his homeIn brackets to the point I’d note: In all my verses, by my rhymeShe sees: the room is light again, Through window’s a frosty paneAt home had to work a lot; And he went out; but my EugeneThe honoured castle was erected Like all such castles: it was fineA forest stands; a stout pine Is still and frowned, yet is fineI could defineUnbearable is at rout Of mere dinners see a lineMy memory is dark.., I’m granny... And much forgot... of life the lineThey now play the eighth of roberts, Of whist the braves; eight times in lineAnd now, free from humid stopper, Each bottle bangs and all the wineOf ‘Clicquot widow’ or ‘Moet` Some blessed and fine the dry white wineI like the friendly idle speakings And friendly howl of sweet wineTo twenty six of own age. Was weary at leisure oneThrough kitchen-garden they went home; They came together; no oneMeanwhile we all. of Hymen foes, In home life yet see but oneHer own house they have come; The door wide open was doneAt first they came to him for visit But as he usually was goneBut let it go: at this rate To strive against myself aloneAnd he with pleasure long ago Was meeting him; that’s why at borneBut such amusements, yet important, Are worthy of an old apeYou’ll perish, but before you go, You try in dazzling pretty hopeAnd hostile shore, I shall be rushing To come to midday desert steppeOne vision always, everywhere, The rime desire comes to dareMy mother in her bitter tears Implored to yield; for Tanya hereMeanwhile they most be not a mock, But honourable..!’ - l could hereOn leave the gussars hasten here(Not speaking of the verses frames). The education can’t adhereTo judgings by the world severeAnd far niente is my law.	 I wake at mornings to adoreYes, I shall come, I’ll come!’ - beforeThe tears of the people’s awe. Katenin there could restoreThe secret drives in sledge rehearse; But I am ready to endureWill get some favourable deal, And afterwards they’ll not endureBetween affairs and the leisure She found out with a pleasureThey all can find her somewhat queer Provincial and affected creatureHe’s languished by the hits rebuffing, Attentive in the still and noiseThe boston, gossips were in vain, Or dear looks or sighs - all thoseMy age inclines for strict a prose, Against light rhymes my age aroseBut wave and stone, The ice and flame, the verse and proseBut I my fruits of dreams am reading, And my harmonious ventured verseHe’ll fascinate you, I am sure, By picturing in flaming verseTo Petushkóv she never goes; Pykhtín, the hussar, toed to fuseIncautious, likely, I was, but me could supplicateBut my fateAt Kharitónya’s in the alley In front of house at the gateWith love friends’ notions I’d rateAnd all to her it seems quite wealthy, Revives her languid soul’s rateI can your frankness estimate, It made my feelings agitateAbout feasts, enormous, fine, About meals and corks I wroteAll things by Paris craft invented To help the idle hungry tasteEnrolled dandies show here The impudence and fine gilletteSome kind of trouble was him teasing: For change of places secret cueThe night has many stars, all charming; The brightest one at heaven’s blueAt first I wished to keep it secret; Believe me: never of my shame You’d guess, as I would well behaveYou, constant vivid job, could harden My slender force, to me could giveCan share stillness of pastimes; Long liveAh, he could love; they don’t now Have anything like real loveAnd I’ll remind the speech of passion, The words of longing, wistful loveThe secrets of the bed of marriage, The garlands of the sweetest loveI dread: in my submissive prayers You’ll see by strict, severe gazeHis misty, foggy gazeThe tracks of tears; in a chair In front of heroine in griefAnd quickly both they yet offMy bad translation incomplete. Its like of picture poor copy; Or like ofSincerely, in grief embracingHimself should show as the hard Without prejudices headingThe veil on hat she turns away, And superficially is readingAid he awoke; they are bringing A letter: him prince N. is biddingAt fire-place the table’s lain: Onegin’s waiting - Lensky’s speedingSees no use (and not in vain). But hearty pain to be abidingAnd everywhere finds some mark... But none relief she is yet findingOr with the nature just reviving We close in, confused by mindingYou came two times, but then of self You don’t make them yet remindingHer soul managed to engage; And near him Tatyana seeingGrey-haired couple of Scotinin With all the children you’d be seeingIf she’s seeingThe jumps, moustache, the clicks of heels Are all the same without changingAs well as poor moth is blending And shines like rainbowed a thingI cannot show to the end As I must go after speakingThe clock’s been strikingWith dangerous book alone’s hiking, In it reveals she so strikingAnd comes to bouieward quite forlone: He there at a space is walkingWhen him a schoolboy clips the wing, Or like a little hare’s tremblingTatyana’s now trembling, seeing By what a thought, a note, feelingHer father was good-humoured being, From age retarted. Scornful feelingAh, dear, all my inner feeling- All they are yet feelingOnegin’s soul always tries Unwittingly to show feeling(Still previous happiness was feeling) To see my Moscow just kneelingAt last before the dawn of morning His tired head on table’s fallingOnegin quickly recognized The talk of love, which was fulfillingHer young and dear, pretty, charming, Her confidante, her near darlingOf what the secret book, she hid, In daughter’s bed till day was dreamingThe storm has breathed; his prime such charmingOf other, old, better spring, And all the heart it is alarmingTo make your dear magic tuning Of beauty’s passion mood, resumingYou don’t want? - check up your cost, Or grudge, or drink, and thus the eveningMeanwhile the moon was brightly shining, By languid light it was enlightningAnd leans on him with trembling hands; All fearful she’s shyly steppingCongratulating Tanya dear With first success at fair ringI…’ -But you are boringFor long to hear, understand Perfections yours, all them confessingWell, his example gives a lesson; But, goodness me, it’s quite distressingFor him she never will he waiting; In him she always must be hatingAs no knowledge they had had, And dearly were deformatingOf city dandies, maidens rich To catch the eyes derisive, ratingBy clear smile the nature’s fitting Through dream the year’s morning meetingRan up and not without fightingAnd by the salt of worlds backbitingI prize my hours, my days: But I’m in idle boredom wastingAnd then at prince she was adjustingAt last she’s very deeply sighing, From little bench is gettingI saw, Onegin, you in life. For cemetry, eternal settingAnd I had found then, amazing: By their bashful, stern behavingThat Eugene and his friend Vladimir At dawn will argue their livingAll yet livingAt last he fast awakes from dream, Apart the flaps of curtain’s movingAnd Lei is soaring above head: And under pillow unmovingI write, and heart yet isn’t boring, The pen unwitting isn’t drawingOnegin stilly her is helping And in the corner is her layingNot by the post-chaise, by jade, And my Tatyana was enjoyingTo guess the windy youth is tryingMaiden’s SongThe time is fast, she must be out: For her are waiting so longOr where Terpsichore one Amazes all the public youngWhat would you feel if by your pistol Were killed a friend such good and youngBut riot at all: like long ago For poor bard is on the watchHer movements were unhurried, slow. Nor cool, nor talkative is, thoughArrange the pillows in bed Then give him drugs in sadness, thoughHer spirit longed for fatal food; Long since unbearable anguishYou’ll see: they all become the boshOr on the leaves for recollections, Of other signatures beneathThe heat of hearts became all cool; Besides we were awaited bothThen they estimated Each one another; daily forthAt home he took out pistols To check them up, then put them backMeanwhile with cold sham to dare To force the speech and look with mockFor my mistakes in Russian grammar, - Help God to find in all this bookTo country, people in the groves, To isolated dear nookAmong the hills in semicircle Well go there where brookTwo pines accreted by one root, Beneath are streaming snakes of brookSometimes are troubling wit and heart: Without printing pretty markYou now bless long years’ workWould bore, eat, drink, be ill, he fat, At last in own bed idealOf them some queer clown dismal Her found almost idealBut simply I to you will send The legends of the Russian realThe depth of mist can it conceal, Of fate right law will it revealAre blessed the troubles of the day, Is blessed the darkness of the gravelSometimes she’s talkative or dumb, In secret gondola I’ll travelHe doesn’t go, ready now To write to ancestors: to hailHe mutely bowed to the girl, His gaze somehow was in allHe was to blame at times more thickly: At first, he wasn’t right at allAnd flitting quickly snow-storm Is shining, whirling. But at allTo challenge you could try like hell? But in your soul can you tellMuch longer now she is hiking, But now brook and now hillLike in a dreadful misty dream Against each other in the stillYou alone Among anxieties in stillClarissa, Julie and Delphina; Tatyana in the forest’s stillWell, may he all it is by now The fraud of innocent young girlWith clear soulA bowlMay be, the thought to us is coming Amid poetical a dreamI saw myself in cherished dreamBut Tanya now like in dreamI — It sparkles by Hippocrene’s role, It was by own play and foamAnd smelling dead the horses snort And struggle; they with white wet loamOf passions press at last escaping, Again Onegin said of themBut Eugene all the lawsuits hated With lot contented, gave all themOr when a worm disdained and deadly Is growing out lily’s stemPrincess, undone yet before himOf old Kremlin keys to give; But didn’t come at all to himAnd in his own study silent Remembered times, when after himAlter himWhat’s he? is real imitation From Moscow a spook or whimRousseau (I’d say as if bypassing), Of how dared pompous GrimWithout me his time will come, But now let him live in calmPossesses half of world existing Much longer, in the softened loomAs well as bees from tasty house With noise are flying for the bloomThe driven chairs noise arouse; All throng has rushed to anter-roomFor that a neighbour in his farming Was puffing up: to his big farmHe had of books, as no harm In them he saw, but no charmWhen well have cooled the passions temper And no more they would alarmOr can he see forgotten foes, Some cravens, slanderers, a swarmAs quick as canAnd you agree, my dear reader: This time like real gentlemanA simple maidenAnd got to neighbours in a while. At once they heartily were givenOnegin no love could hook in, But listened with a pompous look-inFor hopes; then misunderstanding Well use to break the heart; againTo her it all seemed rather queer, She all forgot, replaced againAnd Tanya hides her agitation, But yet she’s sighing once againIn letters though he againIt in strainWith pride for recent fame can glow: Napoleon waited but in vainAll fancy goods for whims abundant Which are supplied by busy LondonNew generations by some reason, At secret will of great provisionAnd secrets of her own heart, Her sacred tears, happy tensionThen for the babbles due concession To hear of her heart confessionThat on the days I meant above, At feet of ladies fox expressionOnegin at the first admission To agent of such secret missionAnd works again imagination. Again her touch of fascinationMy Moscow... in this lunationWhere’s agitation And honourable aspirationAnd then departures for the way, But asks before for invitationBut he at real field of action Himself white raptured by affectionSome other now drew attention, Some other managed with inventionLike in van Dick’s Madonna finness, Her face is round, red, she’s boonLike thoughts of simple lady’s soul, Like dreams of child, or like the moonLone in the room In stillness, in the light of moonByronThat instant I could trunk with reasonAnd Vertcr, that rebellious martyr, Unimitable GrandisonShe doesn’t say: ‘Let us postpone For multiplying price of ownAll right, by hand unfair ownThe cool debauchery was known As science of the love: its ownDid try to make of that some fun: The country’s freedom has its ownRooms are cold, In them some hungry but high-flownOr, like in fever, can he get A touch of hand, or helps to goOn steps of world the bard might goWay is endless To bed from ballet; half asleepAnd God forbid at evening party Or after ball, at porch, on stepNot a word can slipTo it headlong in simple coach Onegin now has sped upSome minutes they were silent both, Onegin then to her came upis going, and when she’s trying To turn aside... is coming upMy poets! I’d like to hear If I am right; the ladies dearThey nowhere turned to her Lornettes of jealous ladies dearOf Russian Terpsichore’s dearYou’ll fall in love once more and find… You learn to rule yourself: I fearBut then your horse will try in fearTo have half-Russian neighbour dear; As quickly as he can appearAnd when a falling shining starAnd young a woman, city dweller All summer in the country spenderIs cunning liric, who can renderWere full of liberty his views And soul. Ardent, somewhat queerIn order that derisive reader, Or any editor, too eagerAnd when sometimes in front of herThe maidens tried to pass by quiet In front of tier through hall; and higherAway had passed his old father, Onegin was attacked by ratherAnd who would look for maiden tender In this majestic casual mannerShe tried her corset tight to wear, And Russian “н” in French best mannerEvery country eaterOf theatre strict legislator, Inconstant adorer of laterIt’s late, the time has gone; his letter To rue was brought; the whole matterAll they utterHer tender fingers didn’t dare To take a needle; she could neverMartin Zadeka then became The pet of Tanya, and foreverThe frames were shaking, trembling there But nowadays the men, like fairIn front of flaming fire-place Was Benedetta purring fairHorAmusements or for dreams a nook, Some thoughts for heart, for journal’s clamourAt sister Tanya isn’t looking; She lies in bed; a book she hasAnd him repentance badly nags; This inspiration often addsBut where now through them speedsA monk in black by chance appears, Or quick a hare in the fieldsShe’s getting up with rays of morning, At once she hurries to the fieldsAt first two days anew he drove Along secluded lone fieldsPolite; with sharp-clawed paw he’s rapping Her hand to offer help; she bendsShe’s deaf for greetings of the friends; To hide her tears quickly bendsWith him was always on the bends: His enemies as well as friendsThe heaven’s bodies beam and shine. The bushes, chutes without boundsSome wrong and wry neglectful babble Of mispronouncing of wordsLet give the God his soul chancesAnd make some rainbows on snow. By lampions dotted from the sidesHe found house full of servants; To see deceased, from any sidesThe snow’s crackling... someone’s near... On her tiptoe fast she fliesBut aim of looks and talks on whole That time at feast are fatty piesAt her much frightened loud criesNor foreign beauties so fine, Nor sciences, nor evening partiesOf British muse some old fables Her dreams disturb, and it enablesIs it because in higher circlesHe, touching witness, captivated By childish prettiness of gamesWhen we for better education Will widen more all needed framesHis style to pompous tune rerversing An ardent author tried sometimesBut as soon as in charms of dreaming He lost himself - his neighbour comesSome big and shaggy bear comes .. Tatyana: ‘Ah!’ But he becomesYou take my set of florid rhymesBlue smoke rises to the sky, And thorough German baker goesWhy not? It’s pleasant and sonorous; With it, I know, always goesFor fantoms I my eyelids closed; But some remote dear hopesHe cast a glance at ladies’ tires, At circles but with looks, attiresBut can’t: through door her Eugene enters; In front of eyes of Hades’ spectresTo be Napoleon each wishes, But millions of the two-legged creaturesHis pistol then Onegin raisesIndeed, by magnetism’s all forces The mechanism of Russian versesSome other, cool and cold dreams. Some other, more severe issuesHer easy dreams by other dreams; As well as trees can change the leavesOr aren’t we glad to see returning Of perished in the autumn leavesI keep in mind the sea, quite stormy: What envious I was when wavesSome several miles from Krasnogóry, From Lensky’s village, there livesAlas! On furrows of livesAnd like with friends, for long well known, With all the meadows and grovesBut in gloomy cliffsSeverity instead of kindness; Indeed, for you was neither tidingsBut then, amused by idle dreamings, Attended to my better feelingsOf agitated soul’s feelingsThat all the best and sacred wishes,	 And all the fresh and pure dreamingsWhich doesn’t pity any things, In front of which the life yet isThe lanterns, children, many shops, A palace, gardens, cloisters, flocksHe kept me often in his hands, While I could show many pranksSome tears shed at urn my early: ‘He tell in love with me,’ to thinksOf ill princess the joy, caresses Are touching Tanya, but she feelsBut people! all you are alike Your ancestor, called Eve, foremother: What’s given, hardly it involves, But constantly the Dragon callsThat time to all my childish dreamsIndeed, he’s blessed, the lover tranquil, Who can explain his own dreamsThe dreams: fir-trees, the hag, the bores, The East, the bear, snow-stormsInstead of praise he gets yet griefs: Alone under Finnish heavensHe was a common Russian barin, Was kind and good; at his remainsDevoted to lazy feeling, With void in soul, he resstrainsIn songs could proudly retain For all his life exalted passionsIn young sad soul’s aspirations; And yet much more with dismal passionsWe’ll be like invalid in hut, Who nears ears to confessionsWho listens to the same objections And bans the thoughts of wrong reflectionsSome files of steel for nails, some combs, Some scissors, straight and wry: he ownsDid happen any bard in tears To deer love to read with fearsAnd sadly shedding hitter tears To part with Olga mother nearsIt happened: late at time of leisures Two girl-friends, both yet teen-agersFrom saucers, filled with clear waters Some rings get out as on trottersWhile people yawn in church at prayer, To find a bunch of praying grassLike Byron, poet of grace. Or it’s impossible or faithlessIs sad of passions dead a track; This way the storms of autumn coolnessWas able any glimpse of sweetness, Of vergin years bias giftnessOf ladies well-considered dress. I love girls feet. But it’s a stressImmense and light, at distance waiting; Through glasses old people guessTatyana took advice of nanny; As she in bath-room had to guessIn duels classic, pedant crossAt rocks of the Caucasian districtsFor noise, for storms, for many feasts, For everything! For all your giftsThe moon, this miracle in heavens, To which we dedicated nightsBut where are you? Come! My rightsTriumphant is and gladly shines, Is boring me, makes suffer tormentsTomb-stone is gloomy, Is lost, and last of feet the printsYou never stamped your small foot-prints. You liked smooth carperts of some printsAnd she forgot the speech of gods For scant and queer lots and lotsAnd glory of the old starts, And panting dreams of all young heartsTo-day frivolous generation Matures, stirs, already testsBut what Tatyana could he thinking When recognized among the guestsBut even such a friendship, readers, We haven’t now; each of usWith dear muse of mine capricious Let’s hear forest’s noise deliciousAt her to gaze he was assidious, But no tracks of Tanya previousPerhaps, in front of portrait famous, To people future ignoramousAnd Tatyana’s nervousThe seasons country viewsA lot of pretty loving rot; He it declaims; the sound flowsFrom bed to icy bath had fallen And afterwards was whole daysIn them reflects the whole age And modem man of nowadaysIn spite of Foebus warning notes Myself I’ll humble to the prose, When novels in the old waysYour pricks of swear, you must know, Your strict and cool severe chatFor all of thatFor weeks matchmaker was then coming To all my kin, and due to that(Which seemed to be like this and that) Me captivating; and for thatWith kin to meetHer neck was caught by long a bough, Then branches could her ears meetBut many days away could getTatyana has a dream unknown: As if she lone were to getAttractiveness; to catch in nets By first expressing some regretThe rime on frosty days yet sunlit; And sledges; and before the sunsetMy Moscow with guilty feeling; Yet neither feast and nor a giftBecause ire, truthfulness she’s swift? Because from heavens got as giftForgive me you, my dear nature; I change my world such still and lightYet, being chilled, are striking horses, Annoyed by harness; near lightThe night is frosty, skies are clear, Of all the heaven’s bodies lightMeanwhile the Cyclops of the village In front of dimmish forge’s lightAnd often at Taurida’s beaches She brought me in the have of nightAnd often in the summer’s sphere, When clear is the sky at nightIt’s time to leave for life the tightThis thoughtful, interesting creation By travelling merchant them was broughtBut it betrays with froth imprudent My stomack. I have never soughtOnegin’s life is somewhat sacred; And he, unfeeling, was to itCould grasp in idle, futile reading, Was not concerned a little bitHas mined great life-giving voice, And after funeral sad habitWith throng by passions deeply fusing, I brought my playful muse to fitWith charms untroubled she is sweet; For long at table does she sitA yard boy’s running in the middle, He made his dog in sledge to sitWhose knowledge makes his heart all cool Arid him forbids to play the fooltWhat happened, what a strange a dreamtAs he to hate coquette decided Excited Lensky didn’t wantBy dreadful exclamation Onegin’s shuddered; slain, impatientMost be respected for the life. And true girl-friend in love’s adjustmentCould come of such a lazy mood. He didn’t join the guild existentAnd stands at stintVladimir has the book to close; He takes a pen: his verse has gotHe for meeting Arrived; is coming... just has gotIs it high time as I forgotThe youthful years would be fading, The soul’s heat would not be hotIs it notThey didn’t use the word a beauty To call her, but from head to footHas been enlivened all the talk; In front of hostess light rotIndeed, you won’t With all your pure flaming heartFor love all ages are submissive But to the innocent young heartOnegin Who loved the youth with all his heartIt is benevolent, releasing, Like vernal storms in fields make startInsurgent youth is not yet endless. When Eugene was to change his sortBut at leastIn form of merry, pretty jest With somewhat ruse, to have the breastWhat would you feel if still, unmoving Your friend on earth is mute at restThe beds are made. And any guestHe never wished to rummage quickly In chronological thick dustThe young scapegrace was so deeming, When he by post-chaise in dustWhen to the porch to part all went. At parting all they fussed aboutIn book’s short contents, finds she out Some words that should explain aboutWhatever are you, dear reader, A friend or not, I’d like with youEach day in grief of separation By fickle fate, too far from youThe world will me forget, but you My charming girl, will ever youGriboyedovAll’s now calm; in rooms you hear: Is snoring heavy PustyakóvWith own heavy hall, his dear; Gvozdín, Buyánov, PetushkóvLensky sawWhat for would ever viewEffects, but stepped away anew; He’s blessed much more, who never knewAnd with a bowAnd in a dayYou’d better hurry up away. The shepherd at the break of dayWithout jokes By bore and rhyme depressed, all dayTo all of kin the dinners row They take my Tanya every dayZaretsky cautiously could layBy crimson hand not seen by now The dawn from morning towards the layHe loved the method with his passion: To make a man on earth to layAt home meets without tension, At visits two-three words would sayThen we’ll submissively obey To hear stories by the wayFrom mountains descends this wayAnd you, the girls all young, good looking, Whom droshkies quickly take awayAnd of romantic finest rose. He sang of countries: far awayShe’s trembling like persued a doe, Her darkening eyes she hides awayThey scared love quite timid, shy., But they attracted lovers byFor silent room alone getting At once the whole world forgetting With nobody nearbyOnegin’s quick to dress. Already His sernant’s ordered to be readyI am engulfed by trembling vice: An epigram is being readyBut will and power of mind All overcame, and she alreadyTo cry, to weep I’m now ready...’ -I see, you are unwell alreadyHas come; to servant says he will Lepage’s fatal barrels steadyTatyana was the name of sister... Such name we use to gratifyOn blue, with slashes covered, ice The sun is gay; the snow’s filthyOf how state itself enriches, And how lives, which way and whyWith flocks of snow; through the crowns Of naked birches from the skyMeanwhile far off The honest person and ZaretskyZhookovskyMaiden’s singing intimate, Don’t peep invisiblyOffended you at bottle badly, Or if yet he, annoyed, quite madlyWhen in the garden’s alley fine The fate us brought together; sadlyShe got afraid and in a hurry Tatyana tries away to flyLet’s away get rapidly, Him bespatter easilyOr, like coquette, he simply boomed? By his good will Or willy-nillyQuite egoistic, selfish, dry, To dreaming dedicated greatlyWith the berries laughingly, Don’t hear secretlyWhen we get that fellow, When we see him, instantlyThrough all her fate, severe, ruling. This crank, this dangerous and a gloomyOf Corneille stately genius; there Was known prickly ShakhovskoyHe’s killing Lensky; horrid shading Lays down, then a dreadful cryEach shutter’s open, and dryFor all the childish tricks felt sorry, To them was stranger; dreadful storyWith care steps on icy brim And slips, and falls; all fluffy, merryWhich seemed to be more tender, rich; And with the trustful blind entreatyUnwillingly, with sighs of pity: He’s blessed, who knew all their prettyDid not remember love and spite, Behaved like some indifferent guyAh, don’t mind’ -My friend, by God to hail I dare —Will show my renowned face And say: ‘It’s poet of grace!’You lie, young hard, in peace all age!’To rescue, to his hones - peace In grave, in mother-soil at ease!’I thought that time: will do, perhaps; But what d’you think? again collapse!’My God! what thoughts could come to him!’You sigh not speaking of your will: When will the devil come for him!’Its true, he is unknown version, But really he's honest person!’The mistress cries, ‘At last you’ve got!’And always pity of the past; Enough, of other sing you fast!’And all grandparents exclaim: ’But how years fly away!’To me alone could he bring His dawn of life, such sad and stormy!’A youth unmoving lies on it; He hears voices: ‘Well, he’s killed...’With age the life is such a badness...’Why! out of the country thickets...’At Olga then he fixed his gaze And whispered: ‘I’ve my happy days...’And how long?’ ‘Two will he fast...’As they them wrote many years Of might, as it through ages came..’But whisper, laugh of fools can hurt..’Where is that sullen gloomy crank, The killer of the bard such feeble?’And what can give me fate of mine?’And wondered: would he be alive?’That recently I was you christening?’D’you, Grandison in mind yet keeping?’For thoughtful singing with attention?’Zaretsky to behave refuses: ‘But where is the second yours?’Was brave instead of ‘elle Nina’ To put the ‘belle Tatiana’All point at her, such young and fine, And all they cry: ‘It’s mine! Its mine’Not any man can grasp such things; Ignorance many troubles brings’Well, to present you I shall try’The jams, eternal talk of all: Of rain, of flax, of horses’ stall…’And whispered her each one of them: ‘You look left side at those men…’Enough he fooled the whole world? At least he’d my advice have held: Refuse the modes antiquated. Enough he fooled the whole world…Of interest she is now full And tries herself the door to pull…Has fallen…What is your name? - He’s looking on, At last he answers: - Aghaphon…-In this I see yet no troubles…At people looks she, never smirking, Without imitating tricks…I haven’t force... is tired breast…-To Larin’s -’Oh, looks it strangely: To kill your pretty evenings daily…